The Project Gutenberg EBook of Hung Lou Meng, Book I, by Cao Xueqin

Copyright laws are changing all over the world. Be sure to check the
copyright laws for your country before downloading or redistributing
this or any other Project Gutenberg eBook.

This header should be the first thing seen when viewing this Project
Gutenberg file.  Please do not remove it.  Do not change or edit the
header without written permission.

Please read the "legal small print," and other information about the
eBook and Project Gutenberg at the bottom of this file.  Included is
important information about your specific rights and restrictions in
how the file may be used.  You can also find out about how to make a
donation to Project Gutenberg, and how to get involved.


**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts**

**eBooks Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971**

*****These eBooks Were Prepared By Thousands of Volunteers!*****


Title: Hung Lou Meng, Book I

Author: Cao Xueqin

Release Date: January, 2006  [EBook #9603]
[This file was first posted on October 9, 2003]

Edition: 10

Language: English

Character set encoding: US-ASCII

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK, HUNG LOU MENG, BOOK I ***




E-text prepared by Juliet Sutherland and Project Gutenberg Distributed
Proofreaders







Editors note: This novel is divided into two books, of which this is
              Book I.  Book II (7hlm210.txt, 7hlm210.zip, 8hlm210.txt,
              or 8hllm210.zip) will be found in our etext05 directory
              (http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext05/).




HUNG LOU MENG;

OR, THE DREAM OF THE RED CHAMBER, A CHINESE NOVEL

BY

CAO XUEQIN

Translated by H. BENCRAFT JOLY







BOOK I.





PREFACE.

This translation was suggested not by any pretensions to range myself
among the ranks of the body of sinologues, but by the perplexities and
difficulties experienced by me as a student in Peking, when, at the
completion of the Tzu Erh Chi, I had to plunge in the maze of the Hung
Lou Meng.

Shortcomings are, I feel sure, to be discovered, both in the prose, as
well as among the doggerel and uncouth rhymes, in which the text has
been more adhered to than rhythm; but I shall feel satisfied with the
result, if I succeed, even in the least degree, in affording a helping
hand to present and future students of the Chinese language.

H. BENCRAFT JOLY, H.B.M. Vice-Consulate, Macao, 1st September, 1891.






THE DREAM OF THE RED CHAMBER.




CHAPTER I.

  Chen Shih-yin, in a vision, apprehends perception and spirituality.
  Chia Yue-ts'un, in the (windy and dusty) world, cherishes fond thoughts
      of a beautiful maiden.


This is the opening section; this the first chapter. Subsequent to the
visions of a dream which he had, on some previous occasion, experienced,
the writer personally relates, he designedly concealed the true
circumstances, and borrowed the attributes of perception and
spirituality to relate this story of the Record of the Stone. With this
purpose, he made use of such designations as Chen Shih-yin (truth under
the garb of fiction) and the like. What are, however, the events
recorded in this work? Who are the dramatis personae?

Wearied with the drudgery experienced of late in the world, the author
speaking for himself, goes on to explain, with the lack of success which
attended every single concern, I suddenly bethought myself of the
womankind of past ages. Passing one by one under a minute scrutiny, I
felt that in action and in lore, one and all were far above me; that in
spite of the majesty of my manliness, I could not, in point of fact,
compare with these characters of the gentle sex. And my shame forsooth
then knew no bounds; while regret, on the other hand, was of no avail,
as there was not even a remote possibility of a day of remedy.

On this very day it was that I became desirous to compile, in a
connected form, for publication throughout the world, with a view to
(universal) information, how that I bear inexorable and manifold
retribution; inasmuch as what time, by the sustenance of the benevolence
of Heaven, and the virtue of my ancestors, my apparel was rich and fine,
and as what days my fare was savory and sumptuous, I disregarded the
bounty of education and nurture of father and mother, and paid no heed
to the virtue of precept and injunction of teachers and friends, with
the result that I incurred the punishment, of failure recently in the
least trifle, and the reckless waste of half my lifetime. There have
been meanwhile, generation after generation, those in the inner
chambers, the whole mass of whom could not, on any account, be, through
my influence, allowed to fall into extinction, in order that I, unfilial
as I have been, may have the means to screen my own shortcomings.

Hence it is that the thatched shed, with bamboo mat windows, the bed of
tow and the stove of brick, which are at present my share, are not
sufficient to deter me from carrying out the fixed purpose of my mind.
And could I, furthermore, confront the morning breeze, the evening moon,
the willows by the steps and the flowers in the courtyard, methinks
these would moisten to a greater degree my mortal pen with ink; but
though I lack culture and erudition, what harm is there, however, in
employing fiction and unrecondite language to give utterance to the
merits of these characters? And were I also able to induce the inmates
of the inner chamber to understand and diffuse them, could I besides
break the weariness of even so much as a single moment, or could I open
the eyes of my contemporaries, will it not forsooth prove a boon?

This consideration has led to the usage of such names as Chia Yue-ts'un
and other similar appellations.

More than any in these pages have been employed such words as dreams and
visions; but these dreams constitute the main argument of this work, and
combine, furthermore, the design of giving a word of warning to my
readers.

Reader, can you suggest whence the story begins?

The narration may border on the limits of incoherency and triviality,
but it possesses considerable zest. But to begin.

The Empress Nue Wo, (the goddess of works,) in fashioning blocks of
stones, for the repair of the heavens, prepared, at the Ta Huang Hills
and Wu Ch'i cave, 36,501 blocks of rough stone, each twelve chang in
height, and twenty-four chang square. Of these stones, the Empress Wo
only used 36,500; so that one single block remained over and above,
without being turned to any account. This was cast down the Ch'ing Keng
peak. This stone, strange to say, after having undergone a process of
refinement, attained a nature of efficiency, and could, by its innate
powers, set itself into motion and was able to expand and to contract.

When it became aware that the whole number of blocks had been made use
of to repair the heavens, that it alone had been destitute of the
necessary properties and had been unfit to attain selection, it
forthwith felt within itself vexation and shame, and day and night, it
gave way to anguish and sorrow.

One day, while it lamented its lot, it suddenly caught sight, at a great
distance, of a Buddhist bonze and of a Taoist priest coming towards that
direction. Their appearance was uncommon, their easy manner remarkable.
When they drew near this Ch'ing Keng peak, they sat on the ground to
rest, and began to converse. But on noticing the block newly-polished
and brilliantly clear, which had moreover contracted in dimensions, and
become no larger than the pendant of a fan, they were greatly filled
with admiration. The Buddhist priest picked it up, and laid it in the
palm of his hand.

"Your appearance," he said laughingly, "may well declare you to be a
supernatural object, but as you lack any inherent quality it is
necessary to inscribe a few characters on you, so that every one who
shall see you may at once recognise you to be a remarkable thing. And
subsequently, when you will be taken into a country where honour and
affluence will reign, into a family cultured in mind and of official
status, in a land where flowers and trees shall flourish with
luxuriance, in a town of refinement, renown and glory; when you once
will have been there..."

The stone listened with intense delight.

"What characters may I ask," it consequently inquired, "will you
inscribe? and what place will I be taken to? pray, pray explain to me in
lucid terms." "You mustn't be inquisitive," the bonze replied, with a
smile, "in days to come you'll certainly understand everything." Having
concluded these words, he forthwith put the stone in his sleeve, and
proceeded leisurely on his journey, in company with the Taoist priest.
Whither, however, he took the stone, is not divulged. Nor can it be
known how many centuries and ages elapsed, before a Taoist priest, K'ung
K'ung by name, passed, during his researches after the eternal reason
and his quest after immortality, by these Ta Huang Hills, Wu Ch'i cave
and Ch'ing Keng Peak. Suddenly perceiving a large block of stone, on the
surface of which the traces of characters giving, in a connected form,
the various incidents of its fate, could be clearly deciphered, K'ung
K'ung examined them from first to last. They, in fact, explained how
that this block of worthless stone had originally been devoid of the
properties essential for the repairs to the heavens, how it would be
transmuted into human form and introduced by Mang Mang the High Lord,
and Miao Miao, the Divine, into the world of mortals, and how it would
be led over the other bank (across the San Sara). On the surface, the
record of the spot where it would fall, the place of its birth, as well
as various family trifles and trivial love affairs of young ladies,
verses, odes, speeches and enigmas was still complete; but the name of
the dynasty and the year of the reign were obliterated, and could not be
ascertained.

On the obverse, were also the following enigmatical verses:

  Lacking in virtues meet the azure skies to mend,
  In vain the mortal world full many a year I wend,
  Of a former and after life these facts that be,
  Who will for a tradition strange record for me?

K'ung K'ung, the Taoist, having pondered over these lines for a while,
became aware that this stone had a history of some kind.

"Brother stone," he forthwith said, addressing the stone, "the concerns
of past days recorded on you possess, according to your own account, a
considerable amount of interest, and have been for this reason
inscribed, with the intent of soliciting generations to hand them down
as remarkable occurrences. But in my own opinion, they lack, in the
first place, any data by means of which to establish the name of the
Emperor and the year of his reign; and, in the second place, these
constitute no record of any excellent policy, adopted by any high
worthies or high loyal statesmen, in the government of the state, or in
the rule of public morals. The contents simply treat of a certain number
of maidens, of exceptional character; either of their love affairs or
infatuations, or of their small deserts or insignificant talents; and
were I to transcribe the whole collection of them, they would,
nevertheless, not be estimated as a book of any exceptional worth."

"Sir Priest," the stone replied with assurance, "why are you so
excessively dull? The dynasties recorded in the rustic histories, which
have been written from age to age, have, I am fain to think, invariably
assumed, under false pretences, the mere nomenclature of the Han and
T'ang dynasties. They differ from the events inscribed on my block,
which do not borrow this customary practice, but, being based on my own
experiences and natural feelings, present, on the contrary, a novel and
unique character. Besides, in the pages of these rustic histories,
either the aspersions upon sovereigns and statesmen, or the strictures
upon individuals, their wives, and their daughters, or the deeds of
licentiousness and violence are too numerous to be computed. Indeed,
there is one more kind of loose literature, the wantonness and pollution
in which work most easy havoc upon youth.

"As regards the works, in which the characters of scholars and beauties
is delineated their allusions are again repeatedly of Wen Chuen, their
theme in every page of Tzu Chien; a thousand volumes present no
diversity; and a thousand characters are but a counterpart of each
other. What is more, these works, throughout all their pages, cannot
help bordering on extreme licence. The authors, however, had no other
object in view than to give utterance to a few sentimental odes and
elegant ballads of their own, and for this reason they have fictitiously
invented the names and surnames of both men and women, and necessarily
introduced, in addition, some low characters, who should, like a buffoon
in a play, create some excitement in the plot.

"Still more loathsome is a kind of pedantic and profligate literature,
perfectly devoid of all natural sentiment, full of self-contradictions;
and, in fact, the contrast to those maidens in my work, whom I have,
during half my lifetime, seen with my own eyes and heard with my own
ears. And though I will not presume to estimate them as superior to the
heroes and heroines in the works of former ages, yet the perusal of the
motives and issues of their experiences, may likewise afford matter
sufficient to banish dulness, and to break the spell of melancholy.

"As regards the several stanzas of doggerel verse, they may too evoke
such laughter as to compel the reader to blurt out the rice, and to
spurt out the wine.

"In these pages, the scenes depicting the anguish of separation, the
bliss of reunion, and the fortunes of prosperity and of adversity are
all, in every detail, true to human nature, and I have not taken upon
myself to make the slightest addition, or alteration, which might lead
to the perversion of the truth.

"My only object has been that men may, after a drinking bout, or after
they wake from sleep or when in need of relaxation from the pressure of
business, take up this light literature, and not only expunge the traces
of antiquated books, and obtain a new kind of distraction, but that they
may also lay by a long life as well as energy and strength; for it bears
no point of similarity to those works, whose designs are false, whose
course is immoral. Now, Sir Priest, what are your views on the subject?"

K'ung K'ung having pondered for a while over the words, to which he had
listened intently, re-perused, throughout, this record of the stone; and
finding that the general purport consisted of nought else than a
treatise on love, and likewise of an accurate transcription of facts,
without the least taint of profligacy injurious to the times, he
thereupon copied the contents, from beginning to end, to the intent of
charging the world to hand them down as a strange story.

Hence it was that K'ung K'ung, the Taoist, in consequence of his
perception, (in his state of) abstraction, of passion, the generation,
from this passion, of voluptuousness, the transmission of this
voluptuousness into passion, and the apprehension, by means of passion,
of its unreality, forthwith altered his name for that of "Ch'ing Tseng"
(the Voluptuous Bonze), and changed the title of "the Memoir of a Stone"
(Shih-t'ou-chi,) for that of "Ch'ing Tseng Lu," The Record of the
Voluptuous Bonze; while K'ung Mei-chi of Tung Lu gave it the name of
"Feng Yueeh Pao Chien," "The Precious Mirror of Voluptuousness." In later
years, owing to the devotion by Tsao Hsueeh-ch'in in the Tao Hung study,
of ten years to the perusal and revision of the work, the additions and
modifications effected by him five times, the affix of an index and the
division into periods and chapters, the book was again entitled "Chin
Ling Shih Erh Ch'ai," "The Twelve Maidens of Chin Ling." A stanza was
furthermore composed for the purpose. This then, and no other, is the
origin of the Record of the Stone. The poet says appositely:--

  Pages full of silly litter,
  Tears a handful sour and bitter;
  All a fool the author hold,
  But their zest who can unfold?

You have now understood the causes which brought about the Record of the
Stone, but as you are not, as yet, aware what characters are depicted,
and what circumstances are related on the surface of the block, reader,
please lend an ear to the narrative on the stone, which runs as
follows:--

In old days, the land in the South East lay low. In this South-East part
of the world, was situated a walled town, Ku Su by name. Within the
walls a locality, called the Ch'ang Men, was more than all others
throughout the mortal world, the centre, which held the second, if not
the first place for fashion and life. Beyond this Ch'ang Men was a
street called Shih-li-chieh (Ten _Li_ street); in this street a lane,
the Jen Ch'ing lane (Humanity and Purity); and in this lane stood an old
temple, which on account of its diminutive dimensions, was called, by
general consent, the Gourd temple. Next door to this temple lived the
family of a district official, Chen by surname, Fei by name, and
Shih-yin by style. His wife, nee Feng, possessed a worthy and virtuous
disposition, and had a clear perception of moral propriety and good
conduct. This family, though not in actual possession of excessive
affluence and honours, was, nevertheless, in their district, conceded to
be a clan of well-to-do standing. As this Chen Shih-yin was of a
contented and unambitious frame of mind, and entertained no hankering
after any official distinction, but day after day of his life took
delight in gazing at flowers, planting bamboos, sipping his wine and
conning poetical works, he was in fact, in the indulgence of these
pursuits, as happy as a supernatural being.

One thing alone marred his happiness. He had lived over half a century
and had, as yet, no male offspring around his knees. He had one only
child, a daughter, whose infant name was Ying Lien. She was just three
years of age. On a long summer day, on which the heat had been intense,
Shih-yin sat leisurely in his library. Feeling his hand tired, he
dropped the book he held, leant his head on a teapoy, and fell asleep.

Of a sudden, while in this state of unconsciousness, it seemed as if he
had betaken himself on foot to some spot or other whither he could not
discriminate. Unexpectedly he espied, in the opposite direction, two
priests coming towards him: the one a Buddhist, the other a Taoist. As
they advanced they kept up the conversation in which they were engaged.
"Whither do you purpose taking the object you have brought away?" he
heard the Taoist inquire. To this question the Buddhist replied with a
smile: "Set your mind at ease," he said; "there's now in maturity a plot
of a general character involving mundane pleasures, which will presently
come to a denouement. The whole number of the votaries of voluptuousness
have, as yet, not been quickened or entered the world, and I mean to
avail myself of this occasion to introduce this object among their
number, so as to give it a chance to go through the span of human
existence." "The votaries of voluptuousness of these days will naturally
have again to endure the ills of life during their course through the
mortal world," the Taoist remarked; "but when, I wonder, will they
spring into existence? and in what place will they descend?"

"The account of these circumstances," the bonze ventured to reply, "is
enough to make you laugh! They amount to this: there existed in the
west, on the bank of the Ling (spiritual) river, by the side of the San
Sheng (thrice-born) stone, a blade of the Chiang Chu (purple pearl)
grass. At about the same time it was that the block of stone was,
consequent upon its rejection by the goddess of works, also left to
ramble and wander to its own gratification, and to roam about at
pleasure to every and any place. One day it came within the precincts of
the Ching Huan (Monitory Vision) Fairy; and this Fairy, cognizant of the
fact that this stone had a history, detained it, therefore, to reside at
the Ch'ih Hsia (purple clouds) palace, and apportioned to it the duties
of attendant on Shen Ying, a fairy of the Ch'ih Hsia palace.

"This stone would, however, often stroll along the banks of the Ling
river, and having at the sight of the blade of spiritual grass been
filled with admiration, it, day by day, moistened its roots with sweet
dew. This purple pearl grass, at the outset, tarried for months and
years; but being at a later period imbued with the essence and
luxuriance of heaven and earth, and having incessantly received the
moisture and nurture of the sweet dew, divested itself, in course of
time, of the form of a grass; assuming, in lieu, a human nature, which
gradually became perfected into the person of a girl.

"Every day she was wont to wander beyond the confines of the Li Hen
(divested animosities) heavens. When hungry she fed on the Pi Ch'ing
(hidden love) fruit--when thirsty she drank the Kuan ch'ou (discharged
sorrows,) water. Having, however, up to this time, not shewn her
gratitude for the virtue of nurture lavished upon her, the result was
but natural that she should resolve in her heart upon a constant and
incessant purpose to make suitable acknowledgment.

"I have been," she would often commune within herself, "the recipient of
the gracious bounty of rain and dew, but I possess no such water as was
lavished upon me to repay it! But should it ever descend into the world
in the form of a human being, I will also betake myself thither, along
with it; and if I can only have the means of making restitution to it,
with the tears of a whole lifetime, I may be able to make adequate
return."

"This resolution it is that will evolve the descent into the world of so
many pleasure-bound spirits of retribution and the experience of
fantastic destinies; and this crimson pearl blade will also be among the
number. The stone still lies in its original place, and why should not
you and I take it along before the tribunal of the Monitory Vision
Fairy, and place on its behalf its name on record, so that it should
descend into the world, in company with these spirits of passion, and
bring this plot to an issue?"

"It is indeed ridiculous," interposed the Taoist. "Never before have I
heard even the very mention of restitution by means of tears! Why should
not you and I avail ourselves of this opportunity to likewise go down
into the world? and if successful in effecting the salvation of a few of
them, will it not be a work meritorious and virtuous?"

"This proposal," remarked the Buddhist, "is quite in harmony with my own
views. Come along then with me to the palace of the Monitory Vision
Fairy, and let us deliver up this good-for-nothing object, and have done
with it! And when the company of pleasure-bound spirits of wrath descend
into human existence, you and I can then enter the world. Half of them
have already fallen into the dusty universe, but the whole number of
them have not, as yet, come together."

"Such being the case," the Taoist acquiesced, "I am ready to follow you,
whenever you please to go."

But to return to Chen Shih-yin. Having heard every one of these words
distinctly, he could not refrain from forthwith stepping forward and
paying homage. "My spiritual lords," he said, as he smiled, "accept my
obeisance." The Buddhist and Taoist priests lost no time in responding
to the compliment, and they exchanged the usual salutations. "My
spiritual lords," Shih-yin continued; "I have just heard the
conversation that passed between you, on causes and effects, a
conversation the like of which few mortals have forsooth listened to;
but your younger brother is sluggish of intellect, and cannot lucidly
fathom the import! Yet could this dulness and simplicity be graciously
dispelled, your younger brother may, by listening minutely, with
undefiled ear and careful attention, to a certain degree be aroused to a
sense of understanding; and what is more, possibly find the means of
escaping the anguish of sinking down into Hades."

The two spirits smiled, "The conversation," they added, "refers to the
primordial scheme and cannot be divulged before the proper season; but,
when the time comes, mind do not forget us two, and you will readily be
able to escape from the fiery furnace."

Shih-yin, after this reply, felt it difficult to make any further
inquiries. "The primordial scheme," he however remarked smiling,
"cannot, of course, be divulged; but what manner of thing, I wonder, is
the good-for-nothing object you alluded to a short while back? May I not
be allowed to judge for myself?"

"This object about which you ask," the Buddhist Bonze responded, "is
intended, I may tell you, by fate to be just glanced at by you." With
these words he produced it, and handed it over to Shih-yin.

Shih-yin received it. On scrutiny he found it, in fact, to be a
beautiful gem, so lustrous and so clear that the traces of characters on
the surface were distinctly visible. The characters inscribed consisted
of the four "T'ung Ling Pao Yue," "Precious Gem of Spiritual Perception."
On the obverse, were also several columns of minute words, which he was
just in the act of looking at intently, when the Buddhist at once
expostulated.

"We have already reached," he exclaimed, "the confines of vision."
Snatching it violently out of his hands, he walked away with the Taoist,
under a lofty stone portal, on the face of which appeared in large type
the four characters: "T'ai Hsue Huan Ching," "The Visionary limits of the
Great Void." On each side was a scroll with the lines:

  When falsehood stands for truth, truth likewise becomes false,
  Where naught be made to aught, aught changes into naught.

Shih-yin meant also to follow them on the other side, but, as he was
about to make one step forward, he suddenly heard a crash, just as if
the mountains had fallen into ruins, and the earth sunk into
destruction. As Shih-yin uttered a loud shout, he looked with strained
eye; but all he could see was the fiery sun shining, with glowing rays,
while the banana leaves drooped their heads. By that time, half of the
circumstances connected with the dream he had had, had already slipped
from his memory.

He also noticed a nurse coming towards him with Ying Lien in her arms.
To Shih-yin's eyes his daughter appeared even more beautiful, such a
bright gem, so precious, and so lovable. Forthwith stretching out his
arms, he took her over, and, as he held her in his embrace, he coaxed
her to play with him for a while; after which he brought her up to the
street to see the great stir occasioned by the procession that was going
past.

He was about to come in, when he caught sight of two priests, one a
Taoist, the other a Buddhist, coming hither from the opposite direction.
The Buddhist had a head covered with mange, and went barefooted. The
Taoist had a limping foot, and his hair was all dishevelled.

Like maniacs, they jostled along, chattering and laughing as they drew
near.

As soon as they reached Shih-yin's door, and they perceived him with
Ying Lien in his arms, the Bonze began to weep aloud.

Turning towards Shih-yin, he said to him: "My good Sir, why need you
carry in your embrace this living but luckless thing, which will involve
father and mother in trouble?"

These words did not escape Shih-yin's ear; but persuaded that they
amounted to raving talk, he paid no heed whatever to the bonze.

"Part with her and give her to me," the Buddhist still went on to say.

Shih-yin could not restrain his annoyance; and hastily pressing his
daughter closer to him, he was intent upon going in, when the bonze
pointed his hand at him, and burst out in a loud fit of laughter.

He then gave utterance to the four lines that follow:

  You indulge your tender daughter and are laughed at as inane;
  Vain you face the snow, oh mirror! for it will evanescent wane,
  When the festival of lanterns is gone by, guard 'gainst your doom,
  'Tis what time the flames will kindle, and the fire will consume.

Shih-yin understood distinctly the full import of what he heard; but his
heart was still full of conjectures. He was about to inquire who and
what they were, when he heard the Taoist remark,--"You and I cannot
speed together; let us now part company, and each of us will be then
able to go after his own business. After the lapse of three ages, I
shall be at the Pei Mang mount, waiting for you; and we can, after our
reunion, betake ourselves to the Visionary Confines of the Great Void,
there to cancel the name of the stone from the records."

"Excellent! first rate!" exclaimed the Bonze. And at the conclusion of
these words, the two men parted, each going his own way, and no trace
was again seen of them.

"These two men," Shih-yin then pondered within his heart, "must have had
many experiences, and I ought really to have made more inquiries of
them; but at this juncture to indulge in regret is anyhow too late."

While Shih-yin gave way to these foolish reflections, he suddenly
noticed the arrival of a penniless scholar, Chia by surname, Hua by
name, Shih-fei by style and Yue-ts'un by nickname, who had taken up his
quarters in the Gourd temple next door. This Chia Yue-ts'un was
originally a denizen of Hu-Chow, and was also of literary and official
parentage, but as he was born of the youngest stock, and the possessions
of his paternal and maternal ancestors were completely exhausted, and
his parents and relatives were dead, he remained the sole and only
survivor; and, as he found his residence in his native place of no
avail, he therefore entered the capital in search of that reputation,
which would enable him to put the family estate on a proper standing. He
had arrived at this place since the year before last, and had, what is
more, lived all along in very straitened circumstances. He had made the
temple his temporary quarters, and earned a living by daily occupying
himself in composing documents and writing letters for customers. Thus
it was that Shih-yin had been in constant relations with him.

As soon as Yue-ts'un perceived Shih-yin, he lost no time in saluting him.
"My worthy Sir," he observed with a forced smile; "how is it you are
leaning against the door and looking out? Is there perchance any news
astir in the streets, or in the public places?"

"None whatever," replied Shih-yin, as he returned the smile. "Just a
while back, my young daughter was in sobs, and I coaxed her out here to
amuse her. I am just now without anything whatever to attend to, so
that, dear brother Chia, you come just in the nick of time. Please walk
into my mean abode, and let us endeavour, in each other's company, to
while away this long summer day."

After he had made this remark, he bade a servant take his daughter in,
while he, hand-in-hand with Yue-ts'un, walked into the library, where a
young page served tea. They had hardly exchanged a few sentences, when
one of the household came in, in flying haste, to announce that Mr. Yen
had come to pay a visit.

Shih-yin at once stood up. "Pray excuse my rudeness," he remarked
apologetically, "but do sit down; I shall shortly rejoin you, and enjoy
the pleasure of your society." "My dear Sir," answered Yue-ts'un, as he
got up, also in a conceding way, "suit your own convenience. I've often
had the honour of being your guest, and what will it matter if I wait a
little?" While these apologies were yet being spoken, Shih-yin had
already walked out into the front parlour. During his absence, Yue-ts'un
occupied himself in turning over the pages of some poetical work to
dispel ennui, when suddenly he heard, outside the window, a woman's
cough. Yue-ts'un hurriedly got up and looked out. He saw at a glance that
it was a servant girl engaged in picking flowers. Her deportment was out
of the common; her eyes so bright, her eyebrows so well defined. Though
not a perfect beauty, she possessed nevertheless charms sufficient to
arouse the feelings. Yue-ts'un unwittingly gazed at her with fixed eye.
This waiting-maid, belonging to the Chen family, had done picking
flowers, and was on the point of going in, when she of a sudden raised
her eyes and became aware of the presence of some person inside the
window, whose head-gear consisted of a turban in tatters, while his
clothes were the worse for wear. But in spite of his poverty, he was
naturally endowed with a round waist, a broad back, a fat face, a square
mouth; added to this, his eyebrows were swordlike, his eyes resembled
stars, his nose was straight, his cheeks square.

This servant girl turned away in a hurry and made her escape.

"This man so burly and strong," she communed within herself, "yet at the
same time got up in such poor attire, must, I expect, be no one else
than the man, whose name is Chia Yue-ts'un or such like, time after time
referred to by my master, and to whom he has repeatedly wished to give a
helping hand, but has failed to find a favourable opportunity. And as
related to our family there is no connexion or friend in such straits, I
feel certain it cannot be any other person than he. Strange to say, my
master has further remarked that this man will, for a certainty, not
always continue in such a state of destitution."

As she indulged in this train of thought, she could not restrain herself
from turning her head round once or twice.

When Yue-ts'un perceived that she had looked back, he readily interpreted
it as a sign that in her heart her thoughts had been of him, and he was
frantic with irrepressible joy.

"This girl," he mused, "is, no doubt, keen-eyed and eminently shrewd,
and one in this world who has seen through me."

The servant youth, after a short time, came into the room; and when
Yue-ts'un made inquiries and found out from him that the guests in the
front parlour had been detained to dinner, he could not very well wait
any longer, and promptly walked away down a side passage and out of a
back door.

When the guests had taken their leave, Shih-yin did not go back to
rejoin Yue-ts'un, as he had come to know that he had already left.

In time the mid-autumn festivities drew near; and Shih-yin, after the
family banquet was over, had a separate table laid in the library, and
crossed over, in the moonlight, as far as the temple and invited
Yue-ts'un to come round.

The fact is that Yue-ts'un, ever since the day on which he had seen the
girl of the Chen family turn twice round to glance at him, flattered
himself that she was friendly disposed towards him, and incessantly
fostered fond thoughts of her in his heart. And on this day, which
happened to be the mid-autumn feast, he could not, as he gazed at the
moon, refrain from cherishing her remembrance. Hence it was that he gave
vent to these pentameter verses:

  Alas! not yet divined my lifelong wish,
  And anguish ceaseless comes upon anguish
  I came, and sad at heart, my brow I frowned;
  She went, and oft her head to look turned round.
  Facing the breeze, her shadow she doth watch,
  Who's meet this moonlight night with her to match?
  The lustrous rays if they my wish but read
  Would soon alight upon her beauteous head!

Yue-ts'un having, after this recitation, recalled again to mind how that
throughout his lifetime his literary attainments had had an adverse fate
and not met with an opportunity (of reaping distinction), went on to rub
his brow, and as he raised his eyes to the skies, he heaved a deep sigh
and once more intoned a couplet aloud:

  The gem in the cask a high price it seeks,
  The pin in the case to take wing it waits.

As luck would have it, Shih-yin was at the moment approaching, and upon
hearing the lines, he said with a smile: "My dear Yue-ts'un, really your
attainments are of no ordinary capacity."

Yue-ts'un lost no time in smiling and replying. "It would be presumption
in my part to think so," he observed. "I was simply at random humming a
few verses composed by former writers, and what reason is there to laud
me to such an excessive degree? To what, my dear Sir, do I owe the
pleasure of your visit?" he went on to inquire. "Tonight," replied
Shih-yin, "is the mid-autumn feast, generally known as the full-moon
festival; and as I could not help thinking that living, as you my worthy
brother are, as a mere stranger in this Buddhist temple, you could not
but experience the feeling of loneliness. I have, for the express
purpose, prepared a small entertainment, and will be pleased if you will
come to my mean abode to have a glass of wine. But I wonder whether you
will entertain favourably my modest invitation?" Yue-ts'un, after
listening to the proposal, put forward no refusal of any sort; but
remarked complacently: "Being the recipient of such marked attention,
how can I presume to repel your generous consideration?"

As he gave expression to these words, he walked off there and then, in
company with Shih-yin, and came over once again into the court in front
of the library. In a few minutes, tea was over.

The cups and dishes had been laid from an early hour, and needless to
say the wines were luscious; the fare sumptuous.

The two friends took their seats. At first they leisurely replenished
their glasses, and quietly sipped their wine; but as, little by little,
they entered into conversation, their good cheer grew more genial, and
unawares the glasses began to fly round, and the cups to be exchanged.

At this very hour, in every house of the neighbourhood, sounded the fife
and lute, while the inmates indulged in music and singing. Above head,
the orb of the radiant moon shone with an all-pervading splendour, and
with a steady lustrous light, while the two friends, as their exuberance
increased, drained their cups dry so soon as they reached their lips.

Yue-ts'un, at this stage of the collation, was considerably under the
influence of wine, and the vehemence of his high spirits was
irrepressible. As he gazed at the moon, he fostered thoughts, to which
he gave vent by the recital of a double couplet.

  'Tis what time three meets five, Selene is a globe!
  Her pure rays fill the court, the jadelike rails enrobe!
  Lo! in the heavens her disk to view doth now arise,
  And in the earth below to gaze men lift their eyes.

"Excellent!" cried Shih-yin with a loud voice, after he had heard these
lines; "I have repeatedly maintained that it was impossible for you to
remain long inferior to any, and now the verses you have recited are a
prognostic of your rapid advancement. Already it is evident that, before
long, you will extend your footsteps far above the clouds! I must
congratulate you! I must congratulate you! Let me, with my own hands,
pour a glass of wine to pay you my compliments."

Yue-ts'un drained the cup. "What I am about to say," he explained as he
suddenly heaved a sigh, "is not the maudlin talk of a man under the
effects of wine. As far as the subjects at present set in the
examinations go, I could, perchance, also have well been able to enter
the list, and to send in my name as a candidate; but I have, just now,
no means whatever to make provision for luggage and for travelling
expenses. The distance too to Shen Ching is a long one, and I could not
depend upon the sale of papers or the composition of essays to find the
means of getting there."

Shih-yin gave him no time to conclude. "Why did you not speak about this
sooner?" he interposed with haste. "I have long entertained this
suspicion; but as, whenever I met you, this conversation was never
broached, I did not presume to make myself officious. But if such be the
state of affairs just now, I lack, I admit, literary qualification, but
on the two subjects of friendly spirit and pecuniary means, I have,
nevertheless, some experience. Moreover, I rejoice that next year is
just the season for the triennial examinations, and you should start for
the capital with all despatch; and in the tripos next spring, you will,
by carrying the prize, be able to do justice to the proficiency you can
boast of. As regards the travelling expenses and the other items, the
provision of everything necessary for you by my own self will again not
render nugatory your mean acquaintance with me."

Forthwith, he directed a servant lad to go and pack up at once fifty
taels of pure silver and two suits of winter clothes.

"The nineteenth," he continued, "is a propitious day, and you should
lose no time in hiring a boat and starting on your journey westwards.
And when, by your eminent talents, you shall have soared high to a lofty
position, and we meet again next winter, will not the occasion be
extremely felicitous?"

Yue-ts'un accepted the money and clothes with but scanty expression of
gratitude. In fact, he paid no thought whatever to the gifts, but went
on, again drinking his wine, as he chattered and laughed.

It was only when the third watch of that day had already struck that the
two friends parted company; and Shih-yin, after seeing Yue-ts'un off,
retired to his room and slept, with one sleep all through, never waking
until the sun was well up in the skies.

Remembering the occurrence of the previous night, he meant to write a
couple of letters of recommendation for Yue-ts'un to take along with him
to the capital, to enable him, after handing them over at the mansions
of certain officials, to find some place as a temporary home. He
accordingly despatched a servant to ask him to come round, but the man
returned and reported that from what the bonze said, "Mr. Chia had
started on his journey to the capital, at the fifth watch of that very
morning, that he had also left a message with the bonze to deliver to
you, Sir, to the effect that men of letters paid no heed to lucky or
unlucky days, that the sole consideration with them was the nature of
the matter in hand, and that he could find no time to come round in
person and bid good-bye."

Shih-yin after hearing this message had no alternative but to banish the
subject from his thoughts.

In comfortable circumstances, time indeed goes by with easy stride. Soon
drew near also the happy festival of the 15th of the 1st moon, and
Shih-yin told a servant Huo Ch'i to take Ying Lien to see the
sacrificial fires and flowery lanterns.

About the middle of the night, Huo Ch'i was hard pressed, and he
forthwith set Ying Lien down on the doorstep of a certain house. When he
felt relieved, he came back to take her up, but failed to find anywhere
any trace of Ying Lien. In a terrible plight, Huo Ch'i prosecuted his
search throughout half the night; but even by the dawn of day, he had
not discovered any clue of her whereabouts. Huo Ch'i, lacking, on the
other hand, the courage to go back and face his master, promptly made
his escape to his native village.

Shih-yin--in fact, the husband as well as the wife--seeing that their
child had not come home during the whole night, readily concluded that
some mishap must have befallen her. Hastily they despatched several
servants to go in search of her, but one and all returned to report that
there was neither vestige nor tidings of her.

This couple had only had this child, and this at the meridian of their
life, so that her sudden disappearance plunged them in such great
distress that day and night they mourned her loss to such a point as to
well nigh pay no heed to their very lives.

A month in no time went by. Shih-yin was the first to fall ill, and his
wife, Dame Feng, likewise, by dint of fretting for her daughter, was
also prostrated with sickness. The doctor was, day after day, sent for,
and the oracle consulted by means of divination.

Little did any one think that on this day, being the 15th of the 3rd
moon, while the sacrificial oblations were being prepared in the Hu Lu
temple, a pan with oil would have caught fire, through the want of care
on the part of the bonze, and that in a short time the flames would have
consumed the paper pasted on the windows.

Among the natives of this district bamboo fences and wooden partitions
were in general use, and these too proved a source of calamity so
ordained by fate (to consummate this decree).

With promptness (the fire) extended to two buildings, then enveloped
three, then dragged four (into ruin), and then spread to five houses,
until the whole street was in a blaze, resembling the flames of a
volcano. Though both the military and the people at once ran to the
rescue, the fire had already assumed a serious hold, so that it was
impossible for them to afford any effective assistance for its
suppression.

It blazed away straight through the night, before it was extinguished,
and consumed, there is in fact no saying how many dwelling houses.
Anyhow, pitiful to relate, the Chen house, situated as it was next door
to the temple, was, at an early part of the evening, reduced to a heap
of tiles and bricks; and nothing but the lives of that couple and
several inmates of the family did not sustain any injuries.

Shih-yin was in despair, but all he could do was to stamp his feet and
heave deep sighs. After consulting with his wife, they betook themselves
to a farm of theirs, where they took up their quarters temporarily. But
as it happened that water had of late years been scarce, and no crops
been reaped, robbers and thieves had sprung up like bees, and though the
Government troops were bent upon their capture, it was anyhow difficult
to settle down quietly on the farm. He therefore had no other resource
than to convert, at a loss, the whole of his property into money, and to
take his wife and two servant girls and come over for shelter to the
house of his father-in-law.

His father-in-law, Feng Su, by name, was a native of Ta Ju Chou.
Although only a labourer, he was nevertheless in easy circumstances at
home. When he on this occasion saw his son-in-law come to him in such
distress, he forthwith felt at heart considerable displeasure.
Fortunately Shih-yin had still in his possession the money derived from
the unprofitable realization of his property, so that he produced and
handed it to his father-in-law, commissioning him to purchase, whenever
a suitable opportunity presented itself, a house and land as a provision
for food and raiment against days to come. This Feng Su, however, only
expended the half of the sum, and pocketed the other half, merely
acquiring for him some fallow land and a dilapidated house.

Shih-yin being, on the other hand, a man of books and with no experience
in matters connected with business and with sowing and reaping,
subsisted, by hook and by crook, for about a year or two, when he became
more impoverished.

In his presence, Feng Su would readily give vent to specious utterances,
while, with others, and behind his back, he on the contrary expressed
his indignation against his improvidence in his mode of living, and
against his sole delight of eating and playing the lazy.

Shih-yin, aware of the want of harmony with his father-in-law, could not
help giving way, in his own heart, to feelings of regret and pain. In
addition to this, the fright and vexation which he had undergone the
year before, the anguish and suffering (he had had to endure), had
already worked havoc (on his constitution); and being a man advanced in
years, and assailed by the joint attack of poverty and disease, he at
length gradually began to display symptoms of decline.

Strange coincidence, as he, on this day, came leaning on his staff and
with considerable strain, as far as the street for a little relaxation,
he suddenly caught sight, approaching from the off side, of a Taoist
priest with a crippled foot; his maniac appearance so repulsive, his
shoes of straw, his dress all in tatters, muttering several sentiments
to this effect:

  All men spiritual life know to be good,
  But fame to disregard they ne'er succeed!
  From old till now the statesmen where are they?
  Waste lie their graves, a heap of grass, extinct.
  All men spiritual life know to be good,
  But to forget gold, silver, ill succeed!
  Through life they grudge their hoardings to be scant,
  And when plenty has come, their eyelids close.
  All men spiritual life hold to be good,
  Yet to forget wives, maids, they ne'er succeed!
  Who speak of grateful love while lives their lord,
  And dead their lord, another they pursue.
  All men spiritual life know to be good,
  But sons and grandsons to forget never succeed!
  From old till now of parents soft many,
  But filial sons and grandsons who have seen?

Shih-yin upon hearing these words, hastily came up to the priest, "What
were you so glibly holding forth?" he inquired. "All I could hear were a
lot of hao liao (excellent, finality.")

"You may well have heard the two words 'hao liao,'" answered the Taoist
with a smile, "but can you be said to have fathomed their meaning? You
should know that all things in this world are excellent, when they have
attained finality; when they have attained finality, they are excellent;
but when they have not attained finality, they are not excellent; if
they would be excellent, they should attain finality. My song is
entitled Excellent-finality (hao liao)."

Shih-yin was gifted with a natural perspicacity that enabled him, as
soon as he heard these remarks, to grasp their spirit.

"Wait a while," he therefore said smilingly; "let me unravel this
excellent-finality song of yours; do you mind?"

"Please by all means go on with the interpretation," urged the Taoist;
whereupon Shih-yin proceeded in this strain:

  Sordid rooms and vacant courts,
  Replete in years gone by with beds where statesmen lay;
  Parched grass and withered banian trees,
  Where once were halls for song and dance!
  Spiders' webs the carved pillars intertwine,
  The green gauze now is also pasted on the straw windows!
  What about the cosmetic fresh concocted or the powder just scented;
  Why has the hair too on each temple become white like hoarfrost!
  Yesterday the tumulus of yellow earth buried the bleached bones,
  To-night under the red silk curtain reclines the couple!
  Gold fills the coffers, silver fills the boxes,
  But in a twinkle, the beggars will all abuse you!
  While you deplore that the life of others is not long,
  You forget that you yourself are approaching death!
  You educate your sons with all propriety,
  But they may some day, 'tis hard to say become thieves;
  Though you choose (your fare and home) the fatted beam,
  You may, who can say, fall into some place of easy virtue!
  Through your dislike of the gauze hat as mean,
  You have come to be locked in a cangue;
  Yesterday, poor fellow, you felt cold in a tattered coat,
  To-day, you despise the purple embroidered dress as long!
  Confusion reigns far and wide! you have just sung your part, I come on
      the boards,
  Instead of yours, you recognise another as your native land;
  What utter perversion!
  In one word, it comes to this we make wedding clothes for others!
  (We sow for others to reap.)

The crazy limping Taoist clapped his hands. "Your interpretation is
explicit," he remarked with a hearty laugh, "your interpretation is
explicit!"

Shih-yin promptly said nothing more than,--"Walk on;" and seizing the
stole from the Taoist's shoulder, he flung it over his own. He did not,
however, return home, but leisurely walked away, in company with the
eccentric priest.

The report of his disappearance was at once bruited abroad, and plunged
the whole neighbourhood in commotion; and converted into a piece of
news, it was circulated from mouth to mouth.

Dame Feng, Shih-yin's wife, upon hearing the tidings, had such a fit of
weeping that she hung between life and death; but her only alternative
was to consult with her father, and to despatch servants on all sides to
institute inquiries. No news was however received of him, and she had
nothing else to do but to practise resignation, and to remain dependent
upon the support of her parents for her subsistence. She had fortunately
still by her side, to wait upon her, two servant girls, who had been
with her in days gone by; and the three of them, mistress as well as
servants, occupied themselves day and night with needlework, to assist
her father in his daily expenses.

This Feng Su had after all, in spite of his daily murmurings against his
bad luck, no help but to submit to the inevitable.

On a certain day, the elder servant girl of the Chen family was at the
door purchasing thread, and while there, she of a sudden heard in the
street shouts of runners clearing the way, and every one explain that
the new magistrate had come to take up his office.

The girl, as she peeped out from inside the door, perceived the lictors
and policemen go by two by two; and when unexpectedly in a state chair,
was carried past an official, in black hat and red coat, she was indeed
quite taken aback.

"The face of this officer would seem familiar," she argued within
herself; "just as if I had seen him somewhere or other ere this."

Shortly she entered the house, and banishing at once the occurrence from
her mind, she did not give it a second thought. At night, however, while
she was waiting to go to bed, she suddenly heard a sound like a rap at
the door. A band of men boisterously cried out: "We are messengers,
deputed by the worthy magistrate of this district, and come to summon
one of you to an enquiry."

Feng Su, upon hearing these words, fell into such a terrible
consternation that his eyes stared wide and his mouth gaped.

What calamity was impending is not as yet ascertained, but, reader,
listen to the explanation contained in the next chapter.




CHAPTER II.

  The spirit of Mrs. Chia Shih-yin departs from the town of Yang Chou.
  Leng Tzu-hsing dilates upon the Jung Kuo Mansion.


To continue. Feng Su, upon hearing the shouts of the public messengers,
came out in a flurry and forcing a smile, he asked them to explain
(their errand); but all these people did was to continue bawling out:
"Be quick, and ask Mr. Chen to come out."

"My surname is Feng," said Feng Su, as he promptly forced himself to
smile; "It is'nt Chen at all: I had once a son-in-law whose surname was
Chen, but he has left home, it is now already a year or two back. Is it
perchance about him that you are inquiring?"

To which the public servants remarked: "We know nothing about Chen or
Chia (true or false); but as he is your son-in-law, we'll take you at
once along with us to make verbal answer to our master and have done
with it."

And forthwith the whole bevy of public servants hustled Feng Su on, as
they went on their way back; while every one in the Feng family was
seized with consternation, and could not imagine what it was all about.

It was no earlier than the second watch, when Feng Su returned home; and
they, one and all, pressed him with questions as to what had happened.

"The fact is," he explained, "the newly-appointed Magistrate, whose
surname is Chia, whose name is Huo and who is a native of Hu-chow, has
been on intimate terms, in years gone by, with our son-in-law; that at
the sight of the girl Chiao Hsing, standing at the door, in the act of
buying thread, he concluded that he must have shifted his quarters over
here, and hence it was that his messengers came to fetch him. I gave him
a clear account of the various circumstances (of his misfortunes), and
the Magistrate was for a time much distressed and expressed his regret.
He then went on to make inquiries about my grand-daughter, and I
explained that she had been lost, while looking at the illuminations.
'No matter,' put in the Magistrate, 'I will by and by order my men to
make search, and I feel certain that they will find her and bring her
back.' Then ensued a short conversation, after which I was about to go,
when he presented me with the sum of two taels."

The mistress of the Chen family (Mrs. Chen Shih-yin) could not but feel
very much affected by what she heard, and the whole evening she uttered
not a word.

The next day, at an early hour, Yue-ts'un sent some of his men to bring
over to Chen's wife presents, consisting of two packets of silver, and
four pieces of brocaded silk, as a token of gratitude, and to Feng Su
also a confidential letter, requesting him to ask of Mrs. Chen her maid
Chiao Hsing to become his second wife.

Feng Su was so intensely delighted that his eyebrows expanded, his eyes
smiled, and he felt eager to toady to the Magistrate (by presenting the
girl to him). He hastened to employ all his persuasive powers with his
daughter (to further his purpose), and on the same evening he forthwith
escorted Chiao Hsing in a small chair to the Yamen.

The joy experienced by Yue-ts'un need not be dilated upon. He also
presented Feng Su with a packet containing one hundred ounces of gold;
and sent numerous valuable presents to Mrs. Chen, enjoining her "to live
cheerfully in the anticipation of finding out the whereabouts of her
daughter."

It must be explained, however, that the maid Chi'ao Hsing was the very
person, who, a few years ago, had looked round at Yue-ts'un and who, by
one simple, unpremeditated glance, evolved, in fact, this extraordinary
destiny which was indeed an event beyond conception.

Who would ever have foreseen that fate and fortune would both have so
favoured her that she should, contrary to all anticipation, give birth
to a son, after living with Yue-ts'un barely a year, that in addition to
this, after the lapse of another half year, Yue-ts'un's wife should have
contracted a sudden illness and departed this life, and that Yue-ts'un
should have at once raised her to the rank of first wife. Her destiny is
adequately expressed by the lines:

  Through but one single, casual look
  Soon an exalted place she took.

The fact is that after Yue-ts'un had been presented with the money by
Shih-yin, he promptly started on the 16th day for the capital, and at
the triennial great tripos, his wishes were gratified to the full.
Having successfully carried off his degree of graduate of the third
rank, his name was put by selection on the list for provincial
appointments. By this time, he had been raised to the rank of Magistrate
in this district; but, in spite of the excellence and sufficiency of his
accomplishments and abilities, he could not escape being ambitious and
overbearing. He failed besides, confident as he was in his own merits,
in respect toward his superiors, with the result that these officials
looked upon him scornfully with the corner of the eye.

A year had hardly elapsed, when he was readily denounced in a memorial
to the Throne by the High Provincial authorities, who represented that
he was of a haughty disposition, that he had taken upon himself to
introduce innovations in the rites and ceremonies, that overtly, while
he endeavoured to enjoy the reputation of probity and uprightness, he,
secretly, combined the nature of the tiger and wolf; with the
consequence that he had been the cause of much trouble in the district,
and that he had made life intolerable for the people, &c. &c.

The Dragon countenance of the Emperor was considerably incensed. His
Majesty lost no time in issuing commands, in reply to the Memorial, that
he should be deprived of his official status.

On the arrival of the despatch from the Board, great was the joy felt by
every officer, without exception, of the prefecture in which he had held
office. Yue-ts'un, though at heart intensely mortified and incensed,
betrayed not the least outward symptom of annoyance, but still
preserved, as of old, a smiling and cheerful countenance.

He handed over charge of all official business and removed the savings
which he had accumulated during the several years he had been in office,
his family and all his chattels to his original home; where, after
having put everything in proper order, he himself travelled (carried the
winds and sleeved the moon) far and wide, visiting every relic of note
in the whole Empire.

As luck would have it, on a certain day while making a second journey
through the Wei Yang district, he heard the news that the Salt
Commissioner appointed this year was Lin Ju-hai. This Lin Ju-hai's
family name was Lin, his name Hai and his style Ju-hai. He had obtained
the third place in the previous triennial examination, and had, by this
time, already risen to the rank of Director of the Court of Censors. He
was a native of Ku Su. He had been recently named by Imperial
appointment a Censor attached to the Salt Inspectorate, and had arrived
at his post only a short while back.

In fact, the ancestors of Lin Ju-hai had, from years back, successively
inherited the title of Marquis, which rank, by its present descent to
Ju-hai, had already been enjoyed by five generations. When first
conferred, the hereditary right to the title had been limited to three
generations; but of late years, by an act of magnanimous favour and
generous beneficence, extraordinary bounty had been superadded; and on
the arrival of the succession to the father of Ju-hai, the right had
been extended to another degree. It had now descended to Ju-hai, who
had, besides this title of nobility, begun his career as a successful
graduate. But though his family had been through uninterrupted ages the
recipient of imperial bounties, his kindred had all been anyhow men of
culture.

The only misfortune had been that the several branches of the Lin family
had not been prolific, so that the numbers of its members continued
limited; and though there existed several households, they were all
however to Ju-hai no closer relatives than first cousins. Neither were
there any connections of the same lineage, or of the same parentage.

Ju-hai was at this date past forty; and had only had a son, who had died
the previous year, in the third year of his age. Though he had several
handmaids, he had not had the good fortune of having another son; but
this was too a matter that could not be remedied.

By his wife, nee Chia, he had a daughter, to whom the infant name of Tai
Yue was given. She was, at this time, in her fifth year. Upon her the
parents doated as much as if she were a brilliant pearl in the palm of
their hand. Seeing that she was endowed with natural gifts of
intelligence and good looks, they also felt solicitous to bestow upon
her a certain knowledge of books, with no other purpose than that of
satisfying, by this illusory way, their wishes of having a son to
nurture and of dispelling the anguish felt by them, on account of the
desolation and void in their family circle (round their knees).

But to proceed. Yue-ts'un, while sojourning at an inn, was unexpectedly
laid up with a violent chill. Finding on his recovery, that his funds
were not sufficient to pay his expenses, he was thinking of looking out
for some house where he could find a resting place when he suddenly came
across two friends acquainted with the new Salt Commissioner. Knowing
that this official was desirous to find a tutor to instruct his
daughter, they lost no time in recommending Yue-ts'un, who moved into the
Yamen.

His female pupil was youthful in years and delicate in physique, so that
her lessons were irregular. Besides herself, there were only two waiting
girls, who remained in attendance during the hours of study, so that
Yue-ts'un was spared considerable trouble and had a suitable opportunity
to attend to the improvement of his health.

In a twinkle, another year and more slipped by, and when least expected,
the mother of his ward, nee Chia, was carried away after a short
illness. His pupil (during her mother's sickness) was dutiful in her
attendance, and prepared the medicines for her use. (And after her
death,) she went into the deepest mourning prescribed by the rites, and
gave way to such excess of grief that, naturally delicate as she was,
her old complaint, on this account, broke out anew.

Being unable for a considerable time to prosecute her studies, Yue-ts'un
lived at leisure and had no duties to attend to. Whenever therefore the
wind was genial and the sun mild, he was wont to stroll at random, after
he had done with his meals.

On this particular day, he, by some accident, extended his walk beyond
the suburbs, and desirous to contemplate the nature of the rustic
scenery, he, with listless step, came up to a spot encircled by hills
and streaming pools, by luxuriant clumps of trees and thick groves of
bamboos. Nestling in the dense foliage stood a temple. The doors and
courts were in ruins. The walls, inner and outer, in disrepair. An
inscription on a tablet testified that this was the temple of Spiritual
Perception. On the sides of the door was also a pair of old and
dilapidated scrolls with the following enigmatical verses.

  Behind ample there is, yet to retract the hand, the mind heeds not,
      until.
  Before the mortal vision lies no path, when comes to turn the will.

"These two sentences," Yue-ts'un pondered after perusal, "although simple
in language, are profound in signification. I have previous to this
visited many a spacious temple, located on hills of note, but never have
I beheld an inscription referring to anything of the kind. The meaning
contained in these words must, I feel certain, owe their origin to the
experiences of some person or other; but there's no saying. But why
should I not go in and inquire for myself?"

Upon walking in, he at a glance caught sight of no one else, but of a
very aged bonze, of unkempt appearance, cooking his rice. When Yue-ts'un
perceived that he paid no notice, he went up to him and asked him one or
two questions, but as the old priest was dull of hearing and a dotard,
and as he had lost his teeth, and his tongue was blunt, he made most
irrelevant replies.

Yue-ts'un lost all patience with him, and withdrew again from the
compound with the intention of going as far as the village public house
to have a drink or two, so as to enhance the enjoyment of the rustic
scenery. With easy stride, he accordingly walked up to the place.
Scarcely had he passed the threshold of the public house, when he
perceived some one or other among the visitors who had been sitting
sipping their wine on the divan, jump up and come up to greet him, with
a face beaming with laughter.

"What a strange meeting! What a strange meeting!" he exclaimed aloud.

Yue-ts'un speedily looked at him, (and remembered) that this person had,
in past days, carried on business in a curio establishment in the
capital, and that his surname was Leng and his style Tzu-hsing.

A mutual friendship had existed between them during their sojourn, in
days of yore, in the capital; and as Yue-ts'un had entertained the
highest opinion of Leng Tzu-hsing, as being a man of action and of great
abilities, while this Leng Tzu-hsing, on the other hand, borrowed of the
reputation of refinement enjoyed by Yue-ts'un, the two had consequently
all along lived in perfect harmony and companionship.

"When did you get here?" Yue-ts'un eagerly inquired also smilingly. "I
wasn't in the least aware of your arrival. This unexpected meeting is
positively a strange piece of good fortune."

"I went home," Tzu-hsing replied, "about the close of last year, but now
as I am again bound to the capital, I passed through here on my way to
look up a friend of mine and talk some matters over. He had the kindness
to press me to stay with him for a couple of days longer, and as I after
all have no urgent business to attend to, I am tarrying a few days, but
purpose starting about the middle of the moon. My friend is busy to-day,
so I roamed listlessly as far as here, never dreaming of such a
fortunate meeting."

While speaking, he made Yue-ts'un sit down at the same table, and ordered
a fresh supply of wine and eatables; and as the two friends chatted of
one thing and another, they slowly sipped their wine.

The conversation ran on what had occurred after the separation, and
Yue-ts'un inquired, "Is there any news of any kind in the capital?"

"There's nothing new whatever," answered Tzu-hsing. "There is one thing
however: in the family of one of your worthy kinsmen, of the same name
as yourself, a trifling, but yet remarkable, occurrence has taken
place."

"None of my kindred reside in the capital," rejoined Yue-ts'un with a
smile. "To what can you be alluding?"

"How can it be that you people who have the same surname do not belong
to one clan?" remarked Tzu-hsing, sarcastically.

"In whose family?" inquired Yue-ts'un.

"The Chia family," replied Tzu-hsing smiling, "whose quarters are in the
Jung Kuo Mansion, does not after all reflect discredit upon the lintel
of your door, my venerable friend."

"What!" exclaimed Yue-ts'un, "did this affair take place in that family?
Were we to begin reckoning, we would find the members of my clan to be
anything but limited in number. Since the time of our ancestor Chia Fu,
who lived while the Eastern Han dynasty occupied the Throne, the
branches of our family have been numerous and flourishing; they are now
to be found in every single province, and who could, with any accuracy,
ascertain their whereabouts? As regards the Jung-kuo branch in
particular, their names are in fact inscribed on the same register as
our own, but rich and exalted as they are, we have never presumed to
claim them as our relatives, so that we have become more and more
estranged."

"Don't make any such assertions," Tzu-hsing remarked with a sigh, "the
present two mansions of Jung and Ning have both alike also suffered
reverses, and they cannot come up to their state of days of yore."

"Up to this day, these two households of Ning and of Jung," Yue-ts'un
suggested, "still maintain a very large retinue of people, and how can
it be that they have met with reverses?"

"To explain this would be indeed a long story," said Leng Tzu-hsing.
"Last year," continued Yue-ts'un, "I arrived at Chin Ling, as I
entertained a wish to visit the remains of interest of the six
dynasties, and as I on that day entered the walled town of Shih T'ou, I
passed by the entrance of that old residence. On the east side of the
street, stood the Ning Kuo mansion; on the west the Jung Kuo mansion;
and these two, adjoining each other as they do, cover in fact well-nigh
half of the whole length of the street. Outside the front gate
everything was, it is true, lonely and deserted; but at a glance into
the interior over the enclosing wall, I perceived that the halls,
pavilions, two-storied structures and porches presented still a majestic
and lofty appearance. Even the flower garden, which extends over the
whole area of the back grounds, with its trees and rockeries, also
possessed to that day an air of luxuriance and freshness, which betrayed
no signs of a ruined or decrepid establishment."

"You have had the good fortune of starting in life as a graduate,"
explained Tzu-tsing as he smiled, "and yet are not aware of the saying
uttered by some one of old: that a centipede even when dead does not lie
stiff. (These families) may, according to your version, not be up to the
prosperity of former years, but, compared with the family of an ordinary
official, their condition anyhow presents a difference. Of late the
number of the inmates has, day by day, been on the increase; their
affairs have become daily more numerous; of masters and servants, high
and low, who live in ease and respectability very many there are; but of
those who exercise any forethought, or make any provision, there is not
even one. In their daily wants, their extravagances, and their
expenditure, they are also unable to adapt themselves to circumstances
and practise economy; (so that though) the present external framework
may not have suffered any considerable collapse, their purses have
anyhow begun to feel an exhausting process! But this is a mere trifle.
There is another more serious matter. Would any one ever believe that in
such families of official status, in a clan of education and culture,
the sons and grandsons of the present age would after all be each
(succeeding) generation below the standard of the former?"

Yue-ts'un, having listened to these remarks, observed: "How ever can it
be possible that families of such education and refinement can observe
any system of training and nurture which is not excellent? Concerning
the other branches, I am not in a position to say anything; but
restricting myself to the two mansions of Jung and Ning, they are those
in which, above all others, the education of their children is
methodical."

"I was just now alluding to none other than these two establishments,"
Tzu-hsing observed with a sigh; "but let me tell you all. In days of
yore, the duke of Ning Kuo and the duke of Jung Kuo were two uterine
brothers. The Ning duke was the elder; he had four sons. After the death
of the duke of Ning Kuo, his eldest son, Chia Tai-hua, came into the
title. He also had two sons; but the eldest, whose name was Hu, died at
the age of eight or nine; and the only survivor, the second son, Chia
Ching, inherited the title. His whole mind is at this time set upon
Taoist doctrines; his sole delight is to burn the pill and refine the
dual powers; while every other thought finds no place in his mind.
Happily, he had, at an early age, left a son, Chia Chen, behind in the
lay world, and his father, engrossed as his whole heart was with the
idea of attaining spiritual life, ceded the succession of the official
title to him. His parent is, besides, not willing to return to the
original family seat, but lives outside the walls of the capital,
foolishly hobnobbing with all the Taoist priests. This Mr. Chen had also
a son, Chia Jung, who is, at this period, just in his sixteenth year.
Mr. Ching gives at present no attention to anything at all, so that Mr.
Chen naturally devotes no time to his studies, but being bent upon
nought else but incessant high pleasure, he has subversed the order of
things in the Ning Kuo mansion, and yet no one can summon the courage to
come and hold him in check. But I'll now tell you about the Jung mansion
for your edification. The strange occurrence, to which I alluded just
now, came about in this manner. After the demise of the Jung duke, the
eldest son, Chia Tai-shan, inherited the rank. He took to himself as
wife, the daughter of Marquis Shih, a noble family of Chin Ling, by whom
he had two sons; the elder being Chia She, the younger Chia Cheng. This
Tai Shan is now dead long ago; but his wife is still alive, and the
elder son, Chia She, succeeded to the degree. He is a man of amiable and
genial disposition, but he likewise gives no thought to the direction of
any domestic concern. The second son Chia Cheng displayed, from his
early childhood, a great liking for books, and grew up to be correct and
upright in character. His grandfather doated upon him, and would have
had him start in life through the arena of public examinations, but,
when least expected, Tai-shan, being on the point of death, bequeathed a
petition, which was laid before the Emperor. His Majesty, out of regard
for his former minister, issued immediate commands that the elder son
should inherit the estate, and further inquired how many sons there were
besides him, all of whom he at once expressed a wish to be introduced in
his imperial presence. His Majesty, moreover, displayed exceptional
favour, and conferred upon Mr. Cheng the brevet rank of second class
Assistant Secretary (of a Board), and commanded him to enter the Board
to acquire the necessary experience. He has already now been promoted to
the office of second class Secretary. This Mr. Cheng's wife, nee Wang,
first gave birth to a son called Chia Chu, who became a Licentiate in
his fourteenth year. At barely twenty, he married, but fell ill and died
soon after the birth of a son. Her (Mrs. Cheng's) second child was a
daughter, who came into the world, by a strange coincidence, on the
first day of the year. She had an unexpected (pleasure) in the birth,
the succeeding year, of another son, who, still more remarkable to say,
had, at the time of his birth, a piece of variegated and crystal-like
brilliant jade in his mouth, on which were yet visible the outlines of
several characters. Now, tell me, was not this a novel and strange
occurrence? eh?"

"Strange indeed!" exclaimed Yue-ts'un with a smile; "but I presume the
coming experiences of this being will not be mean."

Tzu-hsing gave a faint smile. "One and all," he remarked, "entertain the
same idea. Hence it is that his mother doats upon him like upon a
precious jewel. On the day of his first birthday, Mr. Cheng readily
entertained a wish to put the bent of his inclinations to the test, and
placed before the child all kinds of things, without number, for him to
grasp from. Contrary to every expectation, he scorned every other
object, and, stretching forth his hand, he simply took hold of rouge,
powder and a few hair-pins, with which he began to play. Mr. Cheng
experienced at once displeasure, as he maintained that this youth would,
by and bye, grow up into a sybarite, devoted to wine and women, and for
this reason it is, that he soon began to feel not much attachment for
him. But his grandmother is the one who, in spite of everything, prizes
him like the breath of her own life. The very mention of what happened
is even strange! He is now grown up to be seven or eight years old, and,
although exceptionally wilful, in intelligence and precocity, however,
not one in a hundred could come up to him! And as for the utterances of
this child, they are no less remarkable. The bones and flesh of woman,
he argues, are made of water, while those of man of mud. 'Women to my
eyes are pure and pleasing,' he says, 'while at the sight of man, I
readily feel how corrupt, foul and repelling they are!' Now tell me, are
not these words ridiculous? There can be no doubt whatever that he will
by and bye turn out to be a licentious roue."

Yue-ts'un, whose countenance suddenly assumed a stern air, promptly
interrupted the conversation. "It doesn't quite follow," he suggested.
"You people don't, I regret to say, understand the destiny of this
child. The fact is that even the old Hanlin scholar Mr. Cheng was
erroneously looked upon as a loose rake and dissolute debauchee! But
unless a person, through much study of books and knowledge of letters,
so increases (in lore) as to attain the talent of discerning the nature
of things, and the vigour of mind to fathom the Taoist reason as well as
to comprehend the first principle, he is not in a position to form any
judgment."

Tzu-hsing upon perceiving the weighty import of what he propounded,
"Please explain," he asked hastily, "the drift (of your argument)." To
which Yue-ts'un responded: "Of the human beings created by the operation
of heaven and earth, if we exclude those who are gifted with extreme
benevolence and extreme viciousness, the rest, for the most part,
present no striking diversity. If they be extremely benevolent, they
fall in, at the time of their birth, with an era of propitious fortune;
while those extremely vicious correspond, at the time of their
existence, with an era of calamity. When those who coexist with
propitious fortune come into life, the world is in order; when those who
coexist with unpropitious fortune come into life, the world is in
danger. Yao, Shun, Yue, Ch'eng T'ang, Wen Wang, Wu Wang, Chou Kung, Chao
Kung, Confucius, Mencius, T'ung Hu, Han Hsin, Chou Tzu, Ch'eng Tzu, Chu
Tzu and Chang Tzu were ordained to see light in an auspicious era.
Whereas Ch'i Yu, Kung Kung, Chieh Wang, Chou Wang, Shih Huang, Wang
Mang, Tsao Ts'ao, Wen Wen, An Hu-shan, Ch'in Kuei and others were one
and all destined to come into the world during a calamitous age. Those
endowed with extreme benevolence set the world in order; those possessed
of extreme maliciousness turn the world into disorder. Purity,
intelligence, spirituality and subtlety constitute the vital spirit of
right which pervades heaven and earth, and the persons gifted with
benevolence are its natural fruit. Malignity and perversity constitute
the spirit of evil, which permeates heaven and earth, and malicious
persons are affected by its influence. The days of perpetual happiness
and eminent good fortune, and the era of perfect peace and tranquility,
which now prevail, are the offspring of the pure, intelligent, divine
and subtle spirit which ascends above, to the very Emperor, and below
reaches the rustic and uncultured classes. Every one is without
exception under its influence. The superfluity of the subtle spirit
expands far and wide, and finding nowhere to betake itself to, becomes,
in due course, transformed into dew, or gentle breeze; and, by a process
of diffusion, it pervades the whole world.

"The spirit of malignity and perversity, unable to expand under the
brilliant sky and transmuting sun, eventually coagulates, pervades and
stops up the deep gutters and extensive caverns; and when of a sudden
the wind agitates it or it be impelled by the clouds, and any slight
disposition, on its part, supervenes to set itself in motion, or to
break its bounds, and so little as even the minutest fraction does
unexpectedly find an outlet, and happens to come across any spirit of
perception and subtlety which may be at the time passing by, the spirit
of right does not yield to the spirit of evil, and the spirit of evil is
again envious of the spirit of right, so that the two do not harmonize.
Just like wind, water, thunder and lightning, which, when they meet in
the bowels of the earth, must necessarily, as they are both to dissolve
and are likewise unable to yield, clash and explode to the end that they
may at length exhaust themselves. Hence it is that these spirits have
also forcibly to diffuse themselves into the human race to find an
outlet, so that they may then completely disperse, with the result that
men and women are suddenly imbued with these spirits and spring into
existence. At best, (these human beings) cannot be generated into
philanthropists or perfect men; at worst, they cannot also embody
extreme perversity or extreme wickedness. Yet placed among one million
beings, the spirit of intelligence, refinement, perception and subtlety
will be above these one million beings; while, on the other hand, the
perverse, depraved and inhuman embodiment will likewise be below the
million of men. Born in a noble and wealthy family, these men will be a
salacious, lustful lot; born of literary, virtuous or poor parentage,
they will turn out retired scholars or men of mark; though they may by
some accident be born in a destitute and poverty-stricken home, they
cannot possibly, in fact, ever sink so low as to become runners or
menials, or contentedly brook to be of the common herd or to be driven
and curbed like a horse in harness. They will become, for a certainty,
either actors of note or courtesans of notoriety; as instanced in former
years by Hsue Yu, T'ao Ch'ien, Yuan Chi, Chi Kang, Liu Ling, the two
families of Wang and Hsieh, Ku Hu-t'ou, Ch'en Hou-chu, T'ang Ming-huang,
Sung Hui-tsung, Liu T'ing-chih, Wen Fei-ching, Mei Nan-kung, Shih
Man-ch'ing, Lui C'hih-ch'ing and Chin Shao-yu, and exemplified
now-a-days by Ni Yuen-lin, T'ang Po-hu, Chu Chih-shan, and also by Li
Kuei-men, Huang P'an-cho, Ching Hsin-mo, Cho Wen-chuen; and the women
Hung Fu, Hsieh T'ao, Ch'ue Ying, Ch'ao Yuen and others; all of whom were
and are of the same stamp, though placed in different scenes of action."

"From what you say," observed Tzu-hsing, "success makes (a man) a duke
or a marquis; ruin, a thief!"

"Quite so; that's just my idea!" replied Yue-ts'un; "I've not as yet let
you know that after my degradation from office, I spent the last couple
of years in travelling for pleasure all over each province, and that I
also myself came across two extraordinary youths. This is why, when a
short while back you alluded to this Pao-yue, I at once conjectured, with
a good deal of certainty, that he must be a human being of the same
stamp. There's no need for me to speak of any farther than the walled
city of Chin Ling. This Mr. Chen was, by imperial appointment, named
Principal of the Government Public College of the Chin Ling province. Do
you perhaps know him?"

"Who doesn't know him?" remarked Tzu-hsing. "This Chen family is an old
connection of the Chia family. These two families were on terms of great
intimacy, and I myself likewise enjoyed the pleasure of their friendship
for many a day."

"Last year, when at Chin Ling," Yue-ts'un continued with a smile, "some
one recommended me as resident tutor to the school in the Chen mansion;
and when I moved into it I saw for myself the state of things. Who would
ever think that that household was grand and luxurious to such a degree!
But they are an affluent family, and withal full of propriety, so that a
school like this was of course not one easy to obtain. The pupil,
however, was, it is true, a young tyro, but far more troublesome to
teach than a candidate for the examination of graduate of the second
degree. Were I to enter into details, you would indeed have a laugh. 'I
must needs,' he explained, 'have the company of two girls in my studies
to enable me to read at all, and to keep likewise my brain clear.
Otherwise, if left to myself, my head gets all in a muddle.' Time after
time, he further expounded to his young attendants, how extremely
honourable and extremely pure were the two words representing woman,
that they are more valuable and precious than the auspicious animal, the
felicitous bird, rare flowers and uncommon plants. 'You may not' (he was
wont to say), 'on any account heedlessly utter them, you set of foul
mouths and filthy tongues! these two words are of the utmost import!
Whenever you have occasion to allude to them, you must, before you can
do so with impunity, take pure water and scented tea and rinse your
mouths. In the event of any slip of the tongue, I shall at once have
your teeth extracted, and your eyes gouged out.' His obstinacy and
waywardness are, in every respect, out of the common. After he was
allowed to leave school, and to return home, he became, at the sight of
the young ladies, so tractable, gentle, sharp, and polite, transformed,
in fact, like one of them. And though, for this reason, his father has
punished him on more than one occasion, by giving him a sound thrashing,
such as brought him to the verge of death, he cannot however change.
Whenever he was being beaten, and could no more endure the pain, he was
wont to promptly break forth in promiscuous loud shouts, 'Girls! girls!'
The young ladies, who heard him from the inner chambers, subsequently
made fun of him. 'Why,' they said, 'when you are being thrashed, and you
are in pain, your only thought is to bawl out girls! Is it perchance
that you expect us young ladies to go and intercede for you? How is that
you have no sense of shame?' To their taunts he gave a most plausible
explanation. 'Once,' he replied, 'when in the agony of pain, I gave vent
to shouting girls, in the hope, perchance, I did not then know, of its
being able to alleviate the soreness. After I had, with this purpose,
given one cry, I really felt the pain considerably better; and now that
I have obtained this secret spell, I have recourse, at once, when I am
in the height of anguish, to shouts of girls, one shout after another.
Now what do you say to this? Isn't this absurd, eh?"

"The grandmother is so infatuated by her extreme tenderness for this
youth, that, time after time, she has, on her grandson's account, found
fault with the tutor, and called her son to task, with the result that I
resigned my post and took my leave. A youth, with a disposition such as
his, cannot assuredly either perpetuate intact the estate of his father
and grandfather, or follow the injunctions of teacher or advice of
friends. The pity is, however, that there are, in that family, several
excellent female cousins, the like of all of whom it would be difficult
to discover."

"Quite so!" remarked Tzu-hsing; "there are now three young ladies in the
Chia family who are simply perfection itself. The eldest is a daughter
of Mr. Cheng, Yuan Ch'un by name, who, on account of her excellence,
filial piety, talents, and virtue, has been selected as a governess in
the palace. The second is the daughter of Mr. She's handmaid, and is
called Ying Ch'un; the third is T'an Ch'un, the child of Mr. Cheng's
handmaid; while the fourth is the uterine sister of Mr. Chen of the Ning
Mansion. Her name is Hsi Ch'un. As dowager lady Shih is so fondly
attached to her granddaughters, they come, for the most part, over to
their grandmother's place to prosecute their studies together, and each
one of these girls is, I hear, without a fault."

"More admirable," observed Yue-ts'un, "is the regime (adhered to) in the
Chen family, where the names of the female children have all been
selected from the list of male names, and are unlike all those
out-of-the-way names, such as Spring Blossom, Scented Gem, and the like
flowery terms in vogue in other families. But how is it that the Chia
family have likewise fallen into this common practice?"

"Not so!" ventured Tzu-h'sing. "It is simply because the eldest daughter
was born on the first of the first moon, that the name of Yuan Ch'un was
given to her; while with the rest this character Ch'un (spring) was then
followed. The names of the senior generation are, in like manner,
adopted from those of their brothers; and there is at present an
instance in support of this. The wife of your present worthy master, Mr.
Lin, is the uterine sister of Mr. Chia. She and Mr. Chia Cheng, and she
went, while at home, under the name of Chia Min. Should you question the
truth of what I say, you are at liberty, on your return, to make minute
inquiries and you'll be convinced."

Yue-ts'un clapped his hands and said smiling, "It's so, I know! for this
female pupil of mine, whose name is Tai-yue, invariably pronounces the
character _min_ as _mi_, whenever she comes across it in the
course of her reading; while, in writing, when she comes to the
character 'min,' she likewise reduces the strokes by one, sometimes by
two. Often have I speculated in my mind (as to the cause), but the
remarks I've heard you mention, convince me, without doubt, that it is
no other reason (than that of reverence to her mother's name). Strange
enough, this pupil of mine is unique in her speech and deportment, and
in no way like any ordinary young lady. But considering that her mother
was no commonplace woman herself, it is natural that she should have
given birth to such a child. Besides, knowing, as I do now, that she is
the granddaughter of the Jung family, it is no matter of surprise to me
that she is what she is. Poor girl, her mother, after all, died in the
course of the last month."

Tzu-hsing heaved a sigh. "Of three elderly sisters," he explained, "this
one was the youngest, and she too is gone! Of the sisters of the senior
generation not one even survives! But now we'll see what the husbands of
this younger generation will be like by and bye!"

"Yes," replied Yue-ts'un. "But some while back you mentioned that Mr.
Cheng has had a son, born with a piece of jade in his mouth, and that he
has besides a tender-aged grandson left by his eldest son; but is it
likely that this Mr. She has not, himself, as yet, had any male issue?"

"After Mr. Cheng had this son with the jade," Tzu-hsing added, "his
handmaid gave birth to another son, who whether he be good or bad, I
don't at all know. At all events, he has by his side two sons and a
grandson, but what these will grow up to be by and bye, I cannot tell.
As regards Mr. Chia She, he too has had two sons; the second of whom,
Chia Lien, is by this time about twenty. He took to wife a relative of
his, a niece of Mr. Cheng's wife, a Miss Wang, and has now been married
for the last two years. This Mr. Lien has lately obtained by purchase
the rank of sub-prefect. He too takes little pleasure in books, but as
far as worldly affairs go, he is so versatile and glib of tongue, that
he has recently taken up his quarters with his uncle Mr. Cheng, to whom
he gives a helping hand in the management of domestic matters. Who would
have thought it, however, ever since his marriage with his worthy wife,
not a single person, whether high or low, has there been who has not
looked up to her with regard: with the result that Mr. Lien himself has,
in fact, had to take a back seat (_lit_. withdrew 35 li). In looks,
she is also so extremely beautiful, in speech so extremely quick and
fluent, in ingenuity so deep and astute, that even a man could, in no
way, come up to her mark."

After hearing these remarks Yue-ts'un smiled. "You now perceive," he
said, "that my argument is no fallacy, and that the several persons
about whom you and I have just been talking are, we may presume, human
beings, who, one and all, have been generated by the spirit of right,
and the spirit of evil, and come to life by the same royal road; but of
course there's no saying."

"Enough," cried Tzu-hsing, "of right and enough of evil; we've been
doing nothing but settling other people's accounts; come now, have
another glass, and you'll be the better for it!"

"While bent upon talking," Yue-ts'un explained, "I've had more glasses
than is good for me."

"Speaking of irrelevant matters about other people," Tzu-hsing rejoined
complacently, "is quite the thing to help us swallow our wine; so come
now; what harm will happen, if we do have a few glasses more."

Yue-ts'un thereupon looked out of the window.

"The day is also far advanced," he remarked, "and if we don't take care,
the gates will be closing; let us leisurely enter the city, and as we go
along, there will be nothing to prevent us from continuing our chat."

Forthwith the two friends rose from their seats, settled and paid their
wine bill, and were just going, when they unexpectedly heard some one
from behind say with a loud voice:

"Accept my congratulations, Brother Yue-ts'un; I've now come, with the
express purpose of giving you the welcome news!"

Yue-ts'un lost no time in turning his head round to look at the speaker.
But reader, if you wish to learn who the man was, listen to the details
given in the following chapter.




CHAPTER III.

  Lin Ju-hai appeals to his brother-in-law, Chia Cheng, recommending
      Yue-ts'un, his daughter's tutor, to his consideration.
  Dowager lady Chia sends to fetch her granddaughter, out of
      commiseration for her being a motherless child.


But to proceed with our narrative.

Yue-ts'un, on speedily turning round, perceived that the speaker was no
other than a certain Chang Ju-kuei, an old colleague of his, who had
been denounced and deprived of office, on account of some case or other;
a native of that district, who had, since his degradation, resided in
his family home.

Having lately come to hear the news that a memorial, presented in the
capital, that the former officers (who had been cashiered) should be
reinstated, had received the imperial consent, he had promptly done all
he could, in every nook and corner, to obtain influence, and to find the
means (of righting his position,) when he, unexpectedly, came across
Yue-ts'un, to whom he therefore lost no time in offering his
congratulations. The two friends exchanged the conventional salutations,
and Chang Ju-kuei forthwith communicated the tidings to Yue-ts'un.

Yue-ts'un was delighted, but after he had made a few remarks, in a great
hurry, each took his leave and sped on his own way homewards.

Leng Tzu-hsing, upon hearing this conversation, hastened at once to
propose a plan, advising Yue-ts'un to request Lin Ju-hai, in his turn, to
appeal in the capital to Mr. Chia Cheng for support.

Yue-ts'un accepted the suggestion, and parted from his companion.

On his return to his quarters, he made all haste to lay his hand on the
Metropolitan Gazette, and having ascertained that the news was
authentic, he had on the next day a personal consultation with Ju-hai.

"Providence and good fortune are both alike propitious!" exclaimed
Ju-hai. "After the death of my wife, my mother-in-law, whose residence
is in the capital, was so very solicitous on my daughter's account, for
having no one to depend upon, that she despatched, at an early period,
boats with men and women servants to come and fetch her. But my child
was at the time not quite over her illness, and that is why she has not
yet started. I was, this very moment, cogitating to send my daughter to
the capital. And in view of the obligation, under which I am to you for
the instruction you have heretofore conferred upon her, remaining as yet
unrequited, there is no reason why, when such an opportunity as this
presents itself, I should not do my utmost to find means to make proper
acknowledgment. I have already, in anticipation, given the matter my
attention, and written a letter of recommendation to my brother-in-law,
urging him to put everything right for you, in order that I may, to a
certain extent, be able to give effect to my modest wishes. As for any
outlay that may prove necessary, I have given proper explanation, in the
letter to my brother-in-law, so that you, my brother, need not trouble
yourself by giving way to much anxiety."

As Yue-ts'un bowed and expressed his appreciation in most profuse
language,--

"Pray," he asked, "where does your honoured brother-in-law reside? and
what is his official capacity? But I fear I'm too coarse in my manner,
and could not presume to obtrude myself in his presence."

Ju-hai smiled. "And yet," he remarked, "this brother-in-law of mine is
after all of one and the same family as your worthy self, for he is the
grandson of the Duke Jung. My elder brother-in-law has now inherited the
status of Captain-General of the first grade. His name is She, his style
Ngen-hou. My second brother-in-law's name is Cheng, his style is
Tzu-chou. His present post is that of a Second class Secretary in the
Board of Works. He is modest and kindhearted, and has much in him of the
habits of his grandfather; not one of that purse-proud and haughty kind
of men. That is why I have written to him and made the request on your
behalf. Were he different to what he really is, not only would he cast a
slur upon your honest purpose, honourable brother, but I myself likewise
would not have been as prompt in taking action."

When Yue-ts'un heard these remarks, he at length credited what had been
told him by Tzu-hsing the day before, and he lost no time in again
expressing his sense of gratitude to Lin Ju-hai.

Ju-hai resumed the conversation.

"I have fixed," (he explained,) "upon the second of next month, for my
young daughter's departure for the capital, and, if you, brother mine,
were to travel along with her, would it not be an advantage to herself,
as well as to yourself?"

Yue-ts'un signified his acquiescence as he listened to his proposal;
feeling in his inner self extremely elated.

Ju-hai availed himself of the earliest opportunity to get ready the
presents (for the capital) and all the requirements for the journey,
which (when completed,) Yue-ts'un took over one by one. His pupil could
not, at first, brook the idea, of a separation from her father, but the
pressing wishes of her grandmother left her no course (but to comply).

"Your father," Ju-hai furthermore argued with her, "is already fifty;
and I entertain no wish to marry again; and then you are always ailing;
besides, with your extreme youth, you have, above, no mother of your own
to take care of you, and below, no sisters to attend to you. If you now
go and have your maternal grandmother, as well as your mother's brothers
and your cousins to depend upon, you will be doing the best thing to
reduce the anxiety which I feel in my heart on your behalf. Why then
should you not go?"

Tai-yue, after listening to what her father had to say, parted from him
in a flood of tears and followed her nurse and several old matrons from
the Jung mansion on board her boat, and set out on her journey.

Yue-ts'un had a boat to himself, and with two youths to wait on him, he
prosecuted his voyage in the wake of Tai-yue.

By a certain day, they reached Ching Tu; and Yue-ts'un, after first
adjusting his hat and clothes, came, attended by a youth, to the door of
the Jung mansion, and sent in a card, which showed his lineage.

Chia Cheng had, by this time, perused his brother-in-law's letter, and
he speedily asked him to walk in. When they met, he found in Yue-ts'un an
imposing manner and polite address.

This Chia Cheng had, in fact, a great penchant above all things for men
of education, men courteous to the talented, respectful to the learned,
ready to lend a helping hand to the needy and to succour the distressed,
and was, to a great extent, like his grandfather. As it was besides a
wish intimated by his brother-in-law, he therefore treated Yue-ts'un with
a consideration still more unusual, and readily strained all his
resources to assist him.

On the very day on which the memorial was submitted to the Throne, he
obtained by his efforts, a reinstatement to office, and before the
expiry of two months, Yue-t'sun was forthwith selected to fill the
appointment of prefect of Ying T'ien in Chin Ling. Taking leave of Chia
Cheng, he chose a propitious day, and proceeded to his post, where we
will leave him without further notice for the present.

But to return to Tai-yue. On the day on which she left the boat, and the
moment she put her foot on shore, there were forthwith at her disposal
chairs for her own use, and carts for the luggage, sent over from the
Jung mansion.

Lin Tai-yue had often heard her mother recount how different was her
grandmother's house from that of other people's; and having seen for
herself how above the common run were already the attendants of the
three grades, (sent to wait upon her,) in attire, in their fare, in all
their articles of use, "how much more," (she thought to herself) "now
that I am going to her home, must I be careful at every step, and
circumspect at every moment! Nor must I utter one word too many, nor
make one step more than is proper, for fear lest I should be ridiculed
by any of them!"

From the moment she got into the chair, and they had entered within the
city walls, she found, as she looked around, through the gauze window,
at the bustle in the streets and public places and at the immense
concourse of people, everything naturally so unlike what she had seen
elsewhere.

After they had also been a considerable time on the way, she suddenly
caught sight, at the northern end of the street, of two huge squatting
lions of marble and of three lofty gates with (knockers representing)
the heads of animals. In front of these gates, sat, in a row, about ten
men in coloured hats and fine attire. The main gate was not open. It was
only through the side gates, on the east and west, that people went in
and came out. Above the centre gate was a tablet. On this tablet were
inscribed in five large characters--"The Ning Kuo mansion erected by
imperial command."

"This must be grandmother's eldest son's residence," reflected Tai-yue.

Towards the east, again, at no great distance, were three more high
gateways, likewise of the same kind as those she had just seen. This was
the Jung Kuo mansion.

They did not however go in by the main gate; but simply made their
entrance through the east side door.

With the sedans on their shoulders, (the bearers) proceeded about the
distance of the throw of an arrow, when upon turning a corner, they
hastily put down the chairs. The matrons, who came behind, one and all
also dismounted. (The bearers) were changed for four youths of seventeen
or eighteen, with hats and clothes without a blemish, and while they
carried the chair, the whole bevy of matrons followed on foot.

When they reached a creeper-laden gate, the sedan was put down, and all
the youths stepped back and retired. The matrons came forward, raised
the screen, and supported Tai-yue to descend from the chair.

Lin Tai-yue entered the door with the creepers, resting on the hand of a
matron.

On both sides was a verandah, like two outstretched arms. An Entrance
Hall stood in the centre, in the middle of which was a door-screen of Ta
Li marble, set in an ebony frame. On the other side of this screen were
three very small halls. At the back of these came at once an extensive
courtyard, belonging to the main building.

In the front part were five parlours, the frieze of the ceiling of which
was all carved, and the pillars ornamented. On either side, were covered
avenues, resembling passages through a rock. In the side-rooms were
suspended cages, full of parrots of every colour, thrushes, and birds of
every description.

On the terrace-steps, sat several waiting maids, dressed in red and
green, and the whole company of them advanced, with beaming faces, to
greet them, when they saw the party approach. "Her venerable ladyship,"
they said, "was at this very moment thinking of you, miss, and, by a
strange coincidence, here you are."

Three or four of them forthwith vied with each other in raising the door
curtain, while at the same time was heard some one announce: "Miss Lin
has arrived."

No sooner had she entered the room, than she espied two servants
supporting a venerable lady, with silver-white hair, coming forward to
greet her. Convinced that this lady must be her grandmother, she was
about to prostrate herself and pay her obeisance, when she was quickly
clasped in the arms of her grandmother, who held her close against her
bosom; and as she called her "my liver! my flesh!" (my love! my
darling!) she began to sob aloud.

The bystanders too, at once, without one exception, melted into tears;
and Tai-yue herself found some difficulty in restraining her sobs. Little
by little the whole party succeeded in consoling her, and Tai-yue at
length paid her obeisance to her grandmother. Her ladyship thereupon
pointed them out one by one to Tai-yue. "This," she said, "is the wife of
your uncle, your mother's elder brother; this is the wife of your uncle,
her second brother; and this is your eldest sister-in-law Chu, the wife
of your senior cousin Chu."

Tai-yue bowed to each one of them (with folded arms).

"Ask the young ladies in," dowager lady Chia went on to say; "tell them
a guest from afar has just arrived, one who comes for the first time;
and that they may not go to their lessons."

The servants with one voice signified their obedience, and two of them
speedily went to carry out her orders.

Not long after three nurses and five or six waiting-maids were seen
ushering in three young ladies. The first was somewhat plump in figure
and of medium height; her cheeks had a congealed appearance, like a
fresh lichee; her nose was glossy like goose fat. She was gracious,
demure, and lovable to look at.

The second had sloping shoulders, and a slim waist. Tall and slender was
she in stature, with a face like the egg of a goose. Her eyes so
beautiful, with their well-curved eyebrows, possessed in their gaze a
bewitching flash. At the very sight of her refined and elegant manners
all idea of vulgarity was forgotten.

The third was below the medium size, and her mien was, as yet,
childlike.

In their head ornaments, jewelry, and dress, the get-up of the three
young ladies was identical.

Tai-yue speedily rose to greet them and to exchange salutations. After
they had made each other's acquaintance, they all took a seat, whereupon
the servants brought the tea. Their conversation was confined to
Tai-yue's mother,--how she had fallen ill, what doctors had attended her,
what medicines had been given her, and how she had been buried and
mourned; and dowager lady Chia was naturally again in great anguish.

"Of all my daughters," she remarked, "your mother was the one I loved
best, and now in a twinkle, she has passed away, before me too, and I've
not been able to so much as see her face. How can this not make my heart
sore-stricken?"

And as she gave vent to these feelings, she took Tai-yue's hand in hers,
and again gave way to sobs; and it was only after the members of the
family had quickly made use of much exhortation and coaxing, that they
succeeded, little by little, in stopping her tears.

They all perceived that Tai-yue, despite her youthful years and
appearance, was lady-like in her deportment and address, and that though
with her delicate figure and countenance, (she seemed as if) unable to
bear the very weight of her clothes, she possessed, however, a certain
captivating air. And as they readily noticed the symptoms of a weak
constitution, they went on in consequence to make inquiries as to what
medicines she ordinarily took, and how it was that her complaint had not
been cured.

"I have," explained Tai-yue, "been in this state ever since I was born;
though I've taken medicines from the very time I was able to eat rice,
up to the present, and have been treated by ever so many doctors of
note, I've not derived any benefit. In the year when I was yet only
three, I remember a mangy-headed bonze coming to our house, and saying
that he would take me along, and make a nun of me; but my father and
mother would, on no account, give their consent. 'As you cannot bear to
part from her and to give her up,' he then remarked, 'her ailment will,
I fear, never, throughout her life, be cured. If you wish to see her all
right, it is only to be done by not letting her, from this day forward,
on any account, listen to the sound of weeping, or see, with the
exception of her parents, any relatives outside the family circle. Then
alone will she be able to go through this existence in peace and in
quiet.' No one heeded the nonsensical talk of this raving priest; but
here am I, up to this very day, dosing myself with ginseng pills as a
tonic."

"What a lucky coincidence!" interposed dowager lady Chia; "some of these
pills are being compounded here, and I'll simply tell them to have an
extra supply made; that's all."

Hardly had she finished these words, when a sound of laughter was heard
from the back courtyard. "Here I am too late!" the voice said, "and not
in time to receive the distant visitor!"

"Every one of all these people," reflected Tai-yue, "holds her peace and
suppresses the very breath of her mouth; and who, I wonder, is this
coming in this reckless and rude manner?"

While, as yet, preoccupied with these thoughts, she caught sight of a
crowd of married women and waiting-maids enter from the back room,
pressing round a regular beauty.

The attire of this person bore no similarity to that of the young
ladies. In all her splendour and lustre, she looked like a fairy or a
goddess. In her coiffure, she had a band of gold filigree work,
representing the eight precious things, inlaid with pearls; and wore
pins, at the head of each of which were five phoenixes in a rampant
position, with pendants of pearls. On her neck, she had a reddish gold
necklet, like coiled dragons, with a fringe of tassels. On her person,
she wore a tight-sleeved jacket, of dark red flowered satin, covered
with hundreds of butterflies, embroidered in gold, interspersed with
flowers. Over all, she had a variegated stiff-silk pelisse, lined with
slate-blue ermine; while her nether garments consisted of a jupe of
kingfisher-colour foreign crepe, brocaded with flowers.

She had a pair of eyes, triangular in shape like those of the red
phoenix, two eyebrows, curved upwards at each temple, like willow
leaves. Her stature was elegant; her figure graceful; her powdered face
like dawning spring, majestic, yet not haughty. Her carnation lips, long
before they parted, betrayed a smile.

Tai-yue eagerly rose and greeted her.

Old lady Chia then smiled. "You don't know her," she observed. "This is
a cunning vixen, who has made quite a name in this establishment! In
Nanking, she went by the appellation of vixen, and if you simply call
her Feng Vixen, it will do."

Tai-yue was just at a loss how to address her, when all her cousins
informed Tai-yue, that this was her sister-in-law Lien.

Tai-yue had not, it is true, made her acquaintance before, but she had
heard her mother mention that her eldest maternal uncle Chia She's son,
Chia Lien, had married the niece of Madame Wang, her second brother's
wife, a girl who had, from her infancy, purposely been nurtured to
supply the place of a son, and to whom the school name of Wang Hsi-feng
had been given.

Tai-yue lost no time in returning her smile and saluting her with all
propriety, addressing her as my sister-in-law. This Hsi-feng laid hold
of Tai-yue's hand, and minutely scrutinised her, for a while, from head
to foot; after which she led her back next to dowager lady Chia, where
they both took a seat.

"If really there be a being of such beauty in the world," she
consequently observed with a smile, "I may well consider as having set
eyes upon it to-day! Besides, in the air of her whole person, she
doesn't in fact look like your granddaughter-in-law, our worthy
ancestor, but in every way like your ladyship's own kindred-
granddaughter! It's no wonder then that your venerable ladyship
should have, day after day, had her unforgotten, even for a second, in
your lips and heart. It's a pity, however, that this cousin of mine
should have such a hard lot! How did it happen that our aunt died at
such an early period?"

As she uttered these words, she hastily took her handkerchief and wiped
the tears from her eyes.

"I've only just recovered from a fit of crying," dowager lady Chia
observed, as she smiled, "and have you again come to start me? Your
cousin has only now arrived from a distant journey, and she is so
delicate to boot! Besides, we have a few minutes back succeeded in
coaxing her to restrain her sobs, so drop at once making any allusion to
your former remarks!"

This Hsi-feng, upon hearing these words, lost no time in converting her
sorrow into joy.

"Quite right," she remarked. "But at the sight of my cousin, my whole
heart was absorbed in her, and I felt happy, and yet wounded at heart:
but having disregarded my venerable ancestor's presence, I deserve to be
beaten, I do indeed!"

And hastily taking once more Tai-yue's hand in her own: "How old are you,
cousin?" she inquired; "Have you been to school? What medicines are you
taking? while you live here, you mustn't feel homesick; and if there's
anything you would like to eat, or to play with, mind you come and tell
me! or should the waiting maids or the matrons fail in their duties,
don't forget also to report them to me."

Addressing at the same time the matrons, she went on to ask, "Have Miss
Lin's luggage and effects been brought in? How many servants has she
brought along with her? Go, as soon as you can, and sweep two lower
rooms and ask them to go and rest."

As she spake, tea and refreshments had already been served, and Hsi-feng
herself handed round the cups and offered the fruits.

Upon hearing the question further put by her maternal aunt Secunda,
"Whether the issue of the monthly allowances of money had been finished
or not yet?" Hsi-feng replied: "The issue of the money has also been
completed; but a few moments back, when I went along with several
servants to the back upper-loft, in search of the satins, we looked for
ever so long, but we saw nothing of the kind of satins alluded to by
you, madame, yesterday; so may it not be that your memory misgives you?"

"Whether there be any or not, of that special kind, is of no
consequence," observed madame Wang. "You should take out," she therefore
went on to add, "any two pieces which first come under your hand, for
this cousin of yours to make herself dresses with; and in the evening,
if I don't forget, I'll send some one to fetch them."

"I've in fact already made every provision," rejoined Hsi-feng; "knowing
very well that my cousin would be arriving within these two days, I have
had everything got ready for her. And when you, madame, go back, if you
will pass an eye over everything, I shall be able to send them round."

Madame Wang gave a smile, nodded her head assentingly, but uttered not a
word by way of reply.

The tea and fruit had by this time been cleared, and dowager lady Chia
directed two old nurses to take Tai-yue to go and see her two maternal
uncles; whereupon Chia She's wife, madame Hsing, hastily stood up and
with a smiling face suggested, "I'll take my niece over; for it will
after all be considerably better if I go!"

"Quite so!" answered dowager lady Chia, smiling; "you can go home too,
and there will be no need for you to come over again!"

Madame Hsing expressed her assent, and forthwith led Tai-yue to take
leave of madame Wang. The whole party escorted them as far as the door
of the Entrance Hall, hung with creepers, where several youths had drawn
a carriage, painted light blue, with a kingfisher-coloured hood.

Madame Hsing led Tai-yue by the hand and they got up into their seats.
The whole company of matrons put the curtain down, and then bade the
youths raise the carriage; who dragged it along, until they came to an
open space, where they at length put the mules into harness.

Going out again by the eastern side gate, they proceeded in an easterly
direction, passed the main entrance of the Jung mansion, and entered a
lofty doorway painted black. On the arrival in front of the ceremonial
gate, they at once dismounted from the curricle, and madame Hsing,
hand-in-hand with Tai-yue, walked into the court.

"These grounds," surmised Tai-yue to herself, "must have been originally
converted from a piece partitioned from the garden of the Jung mansion."

Having entered three rows of ceremonial gates they actually caught sight
of the main structure, with its vestibules and porches, all of which,
though on a small scale, were full of artistic and unique beauty. They
were nothing like the lofty, imposing, massive and luxurious style of
architecture on the other side, yet the avenues and rockeries, in the
various places in the court, were all in perfect taste.

When they reached the interior of the principal pavilion, a large
concourse of handmaids and waiting maids, got up in gala dress, were
already there to greet them. Madame Hsing pressed Tai-yue into a seat,
while she bade some one go into the outer library and request Mr. Chia
She to come over.

In a few minutes the servant returned. "Master," she explained, "says:
'that he has not felt quite well for several days, that as the meeting
with Miss Lin will affect both her as well as himself, he does not for
the present feel equal to seeing each other, that he advises Miss Lin
not to feel despondent or homesick; that she ought to feel quite at home
with her venerable ladyship, (her grandmother,) as well as her maternal
aunts; that her cousins are, it is true, blunt, but that if all the
young ladies associated together in one place, they may also perchance
dispel some dulness; that if ever (Miss Lin) has any grievance, she
should at once speak out, and on no account feel a stranger; and
everything will then be right."

Tai-yue lost no time in respectfully standing up, resuming her seat after
she had listened to every sentence of the message to her. After a while,
she said goodbye, and though madame Hsing used every argument to induce
her to stay for the repast and then leave, Tai-yue smiled and said, "I
shouldn't under ordinary circumstances refuse the invitation to dinner,
which you, aunt, in your love kindly extend to me, but I have still to
cross over and pay my respects to my maternal uncle Secundus; if I went
too late, it would, I fear, be a lack of respect on my part; but I shall
accept on another occasion. I hope therefore that you will, dear aunt,
kindly excuse me."

"If such be the case," madame Hsing replied, "it's all right." And
presently directing two nurses to take her niece over, in the carriage,
in which they had come a while back, Tai-yue thereupon took her leave;
madame Hsing escorting her as far as the ceremonial gate, where she gave
some further directions to all the company of servants. She followed the
curricle with her eyes so long as it remained in sight, and at length
retraced her footsteps.

Tai-yue shortly entered the Jung Mansion, descended from the carriage,
and preceded by all the nurses, she at once proceeded towards the east,
turned a corner, passed through an Entrance Hall, running east and west,
and walked in a southern direction, at the back of the Large Hall. On
the inner side of a ceremonial gate, and at the upper end of a spacious
court, stood a large main building, with five apartments, flanked on
both sides by out-houses (stretching out) like the antlers on the head
of deer; side-gates, resembling passages through a hill, establishing a
thorough communication all round; (a main building) lofty, majestic,
solid and grand, and unlike those in the compound of dowager lady Chia.

Tai-yue readily concluded that this at last was the main inner suite of
apartments. A raised broad road led in a straight line to the large
gate. Upon entering the Hall, and raising her head, she first of all
perceived before her a large tablet with blue ground, upon which figured
nine dragons of reddish gold. The inscription on this tablet consisted
of three characters as large as a peck-measure, and declared that this
was the Hall of Glorious Felicity.

At the end, was a row of characters of minute size, denoting the year,
month and day, upon which His Majesty had been pleased to confer the
tablet upon Chia Yuan, Duke of Jung Kuo. Besides this tablet, were
numberless costly articles bearing the autograph of the Emperor. On the
large black ebony table, engraved with dragons, were placed three
antique blue and green bronze tripods, about three feet in height. On
the wall hung a large picture representing black dragons, such as were
seen in waiting chambers of the Sui dynasty. On one side stood a gold
cup of chased work, while on the other, a crystal casket. On the ground
were placed, in two rows, sixteen chairs, made of hard-grained cedar.

There was also a pair of scrolls consisting of black-wood antithetical
tablets, inlaid with the strokes of words in chased gold. Their burden
was this:

  On the platform shine resplendent pearls like sun or moon,
  And the sheen of the Hall facade gleams like russet sky.

Below, was a row of small characters, denoting that the scroll had been
written by the hand of Mu Shih, a fellow-countryman and old friend of
the family, who, for his meritorious services, had the hereditary title
of Prince of Tung Ngan conferred upon him.

The fact is that madame Wang was also not in the habit of sitting and
resting, in this main apartment, but in three side-rooms on the east, so
that the nurses at once led Tai-yue through the door of the eastern wing.

On a stove-couch, near the window, was spread a foreign red carpet. On
the side of honour, were laid deep red reclining-cushions, with dragons,
with gold cash (for scales), and an oblong brown-coloured
sitting-cushion with gold-cash-spotted dragons. On the two sides, stood
one of a pair of small teapoys of foreign lacquer of peach-blossom
pattern. On the teapoy on the left, were spread out Wen Wang tripods,
spoons, chopsticks and scent-bottles. On the teapoy on the right, were
vases from the Ju Kiln, painted with girls of great beauty, in which
were placed seasonable flowers; (on it were) also teacups, a tea service
and the like articles.

On the floor on the west side of the room, were four chairs in a row,
all of which were covered with antimacassars, embroidered with
silverish-red flowers, while below, at the feet of these chairs, stood
four footstools. On either side, was also one of a pair of high teapoys,
and these teapoys were covered with teacups and flower vases.

The other nick-nacks need not be minutely described.

The old nurses pressed Tai-yue to sit down on the stove-couch; but, on
perceiving near the edge of the couch two embroidered cushions, placed
one opposite the other, she thought of the gradation of seats, and did
not therefore place herself on the couch, but on a chair on the eastern
side of the room; whereupon the waiting maids, in attendance in these
quarters, hastened to serve the tea.

While Tai-yue was sipping her tea, she observed the headgear, dress,
deportment and manners of the several waiting maids, which she really
found so unlike what she had seen in other households. She had hardly
finished her tea, when she noticed a waiting maid approach, dressed in a
red satin jacket, and a waistcoat of blue satin with scollops.

"My lady requests Miss Lin to come over and sit with her," she remarked
as she put on a smile.

The old nurses, upon hearing this message, speedily ushered Tai-yue again
out of this apartment, into the three-roomed small main building by the
eastern porch.

On the stove-couch, situated at the principal part of the room, was
placed, in a transverse position, a low couch-table, at the upper end of
which were laid out, in a heap, books and a tea service. Against the
partition-wall, on the east side, facing the west, was a reclining
pillow, made of blue satin, neither old nor new.

Madame Wang, however, occupied the lower seat, on the west side, on
which was likewise placed a rather shabby blue satin sitting-rug, with a
back-cushion; and upon perceiving Tai-yue come in she urged her at once
to sit on the east side.

Tai-yue concluded, in her mind, that this seat must certainly belong to
Chia Cheng, and espying, next to the couch, a row of three chairs,
covered with antimacassars, strewn with embroidered flowers, somewhat
also the worse for use, Tai-yue sat down on one of these chairs.

But as madame Wang pressed her again and again to sit on the couch,
Tai-yue had at length to take a seat next to her.

"Your uncle," madame Wang explained, "is gone to observe this day as a
fast day, but you'll see him by and bye. There's, however, one thing I
want to talk to you about. Your three female cousins are all, it is
true, everything that is nice; and you will, when later on you come
together for study, or to learn how to do needlework, or whenever, at
any time, you romp and laugh together, find them all most obliging; but
there's one thing that causes me very much concern. I have here one, who
is the very root of retribution, the incarnation of all mischief, one
who is a ne'er-do-well, a prince of malignant spirits in this family. He
is gone to-day to pay his vows in the temple, and is not back yet, but
you will see him in the evening, when you will readily be able to judge
for yourself. One thing you must do, and that is, from this time forth,
not to pay any notice to him. All these cousins of yours don't venture
to bring any taint upon themselves by provoking him."

Tai-yue had in days gone by heard her mother explain that she had a
nephew, born into the world, holding a piece of jade in his mouth, who
was perverse beyond measure, who took no pleasure in his books, and
whose sole great delight was to play the giddy dog in the inner
apartments; that her maternal grandmother, on the other hand, loved him
so fondly that no one ever presumed to call him to account, so that
when, in this instance, she heard madame Wang's advice, she at once felt
certain that it must be this very cousin.

"Isn't it to the cousin born with jade in his mouth, that you are
alluding to, aunt?" she inquired as she returned her smile. "When I was
at home, I remember my mother telling me more than once of this very
cousin, who (she said) was a year older than I, and whose infant name
was Pao-yue. She added that his disposition was really wayward, but that
he treats all his cousins with the utmost consideration. Besides, now
that I have come here, I shall, of course, be always together with my
female cousins, while the boys will have their own court, and separate
quarters; and how ever will there be any cause of bringing any slur upon
myself by provoking him?"

"You don't know the reasons (that prompt me to warn you)," replied
madame Wang laughingly. "He is so unlike all the rest, all because he
has, since his youth up, been doated upon by our old lady! The fact is
that he has been spoilt, through over-indulgence, by being always in the
company of his female cousins! If his female cousins pay no heed to him,
he is, at any rate, somewhat orderly, but the day his cousins say one
word more to him than usual, much trouble forthwith arises, at the
outburst of delight in his heart. That's why I enjoin upon you not to
heed him. From his mouth, at one time, issue sugared words and
mellifluous phrases; and at another, like the heavens devoid of the sun,
he becomes a raving fool; so whatever you do, don't believe all he
says."

Tai-yue was assenting to every bit of advice as it was uttered, when
unexpectedly she beheld a waiting-maid walk in. "Her venerable ladyship
over there," she said, "has sent word about the evening meal."

Madame Wang hastily took Tai-yue by the hand, and emerging by the door of
the back-room, they went eastwards by the verandah at the back. Past the
side gate, was a roadway, running north and south. On the southern side
were a pavilion with three divisions and a Reception Hall with a
colonnade. On the north, stood a large screen wall, painted white;
behind it was a very small building, with a door of half the ordinary
size.

"These are your cousin Feng's rooms," explained madame Wang to Tai-yue,
as she pointed to them smiling. "You'll know in future your way to come
and find her; and if you ever lack anything, mind you mention it to her,
and she'll make it all right."

At the door of this court, were also several youths, who had recently
had the tufts of their hair tied together, who all dropped their hands
against their sides, and stood in a respectful posture. Madame Wang then
led Tai-yue by the hand through a corridor, running east and west, into
what was dowager lady Chia's back-court. Forthwith they entered the door
of the back suite of rooms, where stood, already in attendance, a large
number of servants, who, when they saw madame Wang arrive, set to work
setting the tables and chairs in order.

Chia Chu's wife, nee Li, served the eatables, while Hsi-feng placed the
chopsticks, and madame Wang brought the soup in. Dowager lady Chia was
seated all alone on the divan, in the main part of the apartment, on the
two sides of which stood four vacant chairs.

Hsi-feng at once drew Tai-yue, meaning to make her sit in the foremost
chair on the left side, but Tai-yue steadily and concedingly declined.

"Your aunts and sisters-in-law, standing on the right and left," dowager
lady Chia smilingly explained, "won't have their repast in here, and as
you're a guest, it's but proper that you should take that seat."

Then alone it was that Tai-yue asked for permission to sit down, seating
herself on the chair.

Madame Wang likewise took a seat at old lady Chia's instance; and the
three cousins, Ying Ch'un and the others, having craved for leave to sit
down, at length came forward, and Ying Ch'un took the first chair on the
right, T'an Ch'un the second, and Hsi Ch'un the second on the left.
Waiting maids stood by holding in their hands, flips and finger-bowls
and napkins, while Mrs. Li and lady Feng, the two of them, kept near the
table advising them what to eat, and pressing them to help themselves.

In the outer apartments, the married women and waiting-maids in
attendance, were, it is true, very numerous; but not even so much as the
sound of the cawing of a crow could be heard.

The repast over, each one was presented by a waiting-maid, with tea in a
small tea tray; but the Lin family had all along impressed upon the mind
of their daughter that in order to show due regard to happiness, and to
preserve good health, it was essential, after every meal, to wait a
while, before drinking any tea, so that it should not do any harm to the
intestines. When, therefore, Tai-yue perceived how many habits there were
in this establishment unlike those which prevailed in her home, she too
had no alternative but to conform herself to a certain extent with them.
Upon taking over the cup of tea, servants came once more and presented
finger-bowls for them to rinse their mouths, and Tai-yue also rinsed
hers; and after they had all again finished washing their hands, tea was
eventually served a second time, and this was, at length, the tea that
was intended to be drunk.

"You can all go," observed dowager lady Chia, "and let us alone to have
a chat."

Madame Wang rose as soon as she heard these words, and having made a few
irrelevant remarks, she led the way and left the room along with the two
ladies, Mrs. Li and lady Feng.

Dowager lady Chia, having inquired of Tai-yue what books she was reading,
"I have just begun reading the Four Books," Tai-yue replied. "What books
are my cousins reading?" Tai-yue went on to ask.

"Books, you say!" exclaimed dowager lady Chia; "why all they know are a
few characters, that's all."

The sentence was barely out of her lips, when a continuous sounding of
footsteps was heard outside, and a waiting maid entered and announced
that Pao-yue was coming. Tai-yue was speculating in her mind how it was
that this Pao-yue had turned out such a good-for-nothing fellow, when he
happened to walk in.

He was, in fact, a young man of tender years, wearing on his head, to
hold his hair together, a cap of gold of purplish tinge, inlaid with
precious gems. Parallel with his eyebrows was attached a circlet,
embroidered with gold, and representing two dragons snatching a pearl.
He wore an archery-sleeved deep red jacket, with hundreds of butterflies
worked in gold of two different shades, interspersed with flowers; and
was girded with a sash of variegated silk, with clusters of designs, to
which was attached long tassels; a kind of sash worn in the palace. Over
all, he had a slate-blue fringed coat of Japanese brocaded satin, with
eight bunches of flowers in relief; and wore a pair of light blue satin
white-soled, half-dress court-shoes.

His face was like the full moon at mid-autumn; his complexion, like
morning flowers in spring; the hair along his temples, as if chiselled
with a knife; his eyebrows, as if pencilled with ink; his nose like a
suspended gallbladder (a well-cut and shapely nose); his eyes like
vernal waves; his angry look even resembled a smile; his glance, even
when stern, was full of sentiment.

Round his neck he had a gold dragon necklet with a fringe; also a cord
of variegated silk, to which was attached a piece of beautiful jade.

As soon as Tai-yue became conscious of his presence, she was quite taken
aback. "How very strange!" she was reflecting in her mind; "it would
seem as if I had seen him somewhere or other, for his face appears
extremely familiar to my eyes;" when she noticed Pao-yue face dowager
lady Chia and make his obeisance. "Go and see your mother and then come
back," remarked her venerable ladyship; and at once he turned round and
quitted the room.

On his return, he had already changed his hat and suit. All round his
head, he had a fringe of short hair, plaited into small queues, and
bound with red silk. The queues were gathered up at the crown, and all
the hair, which had been allowed to grow since his birth, was plaited
into a thick queue, which looked as black and as glossy as lacquer.
Between the crown of the head and the extremity of the queue, hung a
string of four large pearls, with pendants of gold, representing the
eight precious things. On his person, he wore a long silvery-red coat,
more or less old, bestrewn with embroidery of flowers. He had still
round his neck the necklet, precious gem, amulet of Recorded Name,
philacteries, and other ornaments. Below were partly visible a fir-cone
coloured brocaded silk pair of trousers, socks spotted with black
designs, with ornamented edges, and a pair of deep red, thick-soled
shoes.

(Got up as he was now,) his face displayed a still whiter appearance, as
if painted, and his eyes as if they were set off with carnation. As he
rolled his eyes, they brimmed with love. When he gave utterance to
speech, he seemed to smile. But the chief natural pleasing feature was
mainly centred in the curve of his eyebrows. The ten thousand and one
fond sentiments, fostered by him during the whole of his existence, were
all amassed in the corner of his eyes.

His outward appearance may have been pleasing to the highest degree, but
yet it was no easy matter to fathom what lay beneath it.

There are a couple of roundelays, composed by a later poet, (after the
excellent rhythm of the) Hsi Chiang Yueh, which depict Pao-yue in a most
adequate manner.

The roundelays run as follows:

  To gloom and passion prone, without a rhyme,
  Inane and madlike was he many a time,
  His outer self, forsooth, fine may have been,
  But one wild, howling waste his mind within:
  Addled his brain that nothing he could see;
  A dunce! to read essays so loth to be!
  Perverse in bearing, in temper wayward;
  For human censure he had no regard.
  When rich, wealth to enjoy he knew not how;
  When poor, to poverty he could not bow.
  Alas! what utter waste of lustrous grace!
  To state, to family what a disgrace!
  Of ne'er-do-wells below he was the prime,
  Unfilial like him none up to this time.
  Ye lads, pampered with sumptuous fare and dress,
  Beware! In this youth's footsteps do not press!

But to proceed with our story.

"You have gone and changed your clothes," observed dowager lady Chia,
"before being introduced to the distant guest. Why don't you yet salute
your cousin?"

Pao-yue had long ago become aware of the presence of a most beautiful
young lady, who, he readily concluded, must be no other than the
daughter of his aunt Lin. He hastened to advance up to her, and make his
bow; and after their introduction, he resumed his seat, whence he
minutely scrutinised her features, (which he thought) so unlike those of
all other girls.

Her two arched eyebrows, thick as clustered smoke, bore a certain not
very pronounced frowning wrinkle. She had a pair of eyes, which
possessed a cheerful, and yet one would say, a sad expression,
overflowing with sentiment. Her face showed the prints of sorrow stamped
on her two dimpled cheeks. She was beautiful, but her whole frame was
the prey of a hereditary disease. The tears in her eyes glistened like
small specks. Her balmy breath was so gentle. She was as demure as a
lovely flower reflected in the water. Her gait resembled a frail willow,
agitated by the wind. Her heart, compared with that of Pi Kan, had one
more aperture of intelligence; while her ailment exceeded (in intensity)
by three degrees the ailment of Hsi-Tzu.

Pao-yue, having concluded his scrutiny of her, put on a smile and said,
"This cousin I have already seen in days gone by."

"There you are again with your nonsense," exclaimed lady Chia,
sneeringly; "how could you have seen her before?"

"Though I may not have seen her, ere this," observed Pao-yue with a
smirk, "yet when I look at her face, it seems so familiar, and to my
mind, it would appear as if we had been old acquaintances; just as if,
in fact, we were now meeting after a long separation."

"That will do! that will do!" remarked dowager lady Chia; "such being
the case, you will be the more intimate."

Pao-yue, thereupon, went up to Tai-yue, and taking a seat next to her,
continued to look at her again with all intentness for a good long
while.

"Have you read any books, cousin?" he asked.

"I haven't as yet," replied Tai-yue, "read any books, as I have only been
to school for a year; all I know are simply a few characters."

"What is your worthy name, cousin?" Pao-yue went on to ask; whereupon
Tai-yue speedily told him her name.

"Your style?" inquired Pao-yue; to which question Tai-yue replied, "I have
no style."

"I'll give you a style," suggested Pao-yue smilingly; "won't the double
style 'P'in P'in,' 'knitting brows,' do very well?"

"From what part of the standard books does that come?" T'an Ch'un
hastily interposed.

"It is stated in the Thorough Research into the state of Creation from
remote ages to the present day," Pao-yue went on to explain, "that, in
the western quarter, there exists a stone, called Tai, (black,) which
can be used, in lieu of ink, to blacken the eyebrows with. Besides the
eyebrows of this cousin taper in a way, as if they were contracted, so
that the selection of these two characters is most appropriate, isn't
it?"

"This is just another plagiarism, I fear," observed T'an Ch'un, with an
ironic smirk.

"Exclusive of the Four Books," Pao-yue remarked smilingly, "the majority
of works are plagiarised; and is it only I, perchance, who plagiarise?
Have you got any jade or not?" he went on to inquire, addressing Tai-yue,
(to the discomfiture) of all who could not make out what he meant.

"It's because he has a jade himself," Tai-yue forthwith reasoned within
her mind, "that he asks me whether I have one or not.--No; I haven't
one," she replied. "That jade of yours is besides a rare object, and how
could every one have one?"

As soon as Pao-yue heard this remark, he at once burst out in a fit of
his raving complaint, and unclasping the gem, he dashed it disdainfully
on the floor. "Rare object, indeed!" he shouted, as he heaped invective
on it; "it has no idea how to discriminate the excellent from the mean,
among human beings; and do tell me, has it any perception or not? I too
can do without this rubbish!"

All those, who stood below, were startled; and in a body they pressed
forward, vying with each other as to who should pick up the gem.

Dowager lady Chia was so distressed that she clasped Pao-yue in her
embrace. "You child of wrath," she exclaimed. "When you get into a
passion, it's easy enough for you to beat and abuse people; but what
makes you fling away that stem of life?"

Pao-yue's face was covered with the traces of tears. "All my cousins
here, senior as well as junior," he rejoined, as he sobbed, "have no
gem, and if it's only I to have one, there's no fun in it, I maintain!
and now comes this angelic sort of cousin, and she too has none, so that
it's clear enough that it is no profitable thing."

Dowager lady Chia hastened to coax him. "This cousin of yours," she
explained, "would, under former circumstances, have come here with a
jade; and it's because your aunt felt unable, as she lay on her
death-bed, to reconcile herself to the separation from your cousin, that
in the absence of any remedy, she forthwith took the gem belonging to
her (daughter), along with her (in the grave); so that, in the first
place, by the fulfilment of the rites of burying the living with the
dead might be accomplished the filial piety of your cousin; and in the
second place, that the spirit of your aunt might also, for the time
being, use it to gratify the wish of gazing on your cousin. That's why
she simply told you that she had no jade; for she couldn't very well
have had any desire to give vent to self-praise. Now, how can you ever
compare yourself with her? and don't you yet carefully and circumspectly
put it on? Mind, your mother may come to know what you have done!"

As she uttered these words, she speedily took the jade over from the
hand of the waiting-maid, and she herself fastened it on for him.

When Pao-yue heard this explanation, he indulged in reflection, but could
not even then advance any further arguments.

A nurse came at the moment and inquired about Tai-yue's quarters, and
dowager lady Chia at once added, "Shift Pao-yue along with me, into the
warm room of my suite of apartments, and put your mistress, Miss Lin,
temporarily in the green gauze house; and when the rest of the winter is
over, and repairs are taken in hand in spring in their rooms, an
additional wing can be put up for her to take up her quarters in."

"My dear ancestor," ventured Pao-yue; "the bed I occupy outside the green
gauze house is very comfortable; and what need is there again for me to
leave it and come and disturb your old ladyship's peace and quiet?"

"Well, all right," observed dowager lady Chia, after some consideration;
"but let each one of you have a nurse, as well as a waiting-maid to
attend on you; the other servants can remain in the outside rooms and
keep night watch and be ready to answer any call."

At an early hour, besides, Hsi-feng had sent a servant round with a grey
flowered curtain, embroidered coverlets and satin quilts and other such
articles.

Tai-yue had brought along with her only two servants; the one was her own
nurse, dame Wang, and the other was a young waiting-maid of sixteen,
whose name was called Hsueeh Yen. Dowager lady Chia, perceiving that
Hsueeh Yen was too youthful and quite a child in her manner, while nurse
Wang was, on the other hand, too aged, conjectured that Tai-yue would, in
all her wants, not have things as she liked, so she detached two
waiting-maids, who were her own personal attendants, named Tzu Chuean and
Ying Ko, and attached them to Tai-yue's service. Just as had Ying Ch'un
and the other girls, each one of whom had besides the wet nurses of
their youth, four other nurses to advise and direct them, and exclusive
of two personal maids to look after their dress and toilette, four or
five additional young maids to do the washing and sweeping of the rooms
and the running about backwards and forwards on errands.

Nurse Wang, Tzu Chuean and other girls entered at once upon their
attendance on Tai-yue in the green gauze rooms, while Pao-yue's wet-nurse,
dame Li, together with an elderly waiting-maid, called Hsi Jen, were on
duty in the room with the large bed.

This Hsi Jen had also been, originally, one of dowager lady Chia's
servant-girls. Her name was in days gone by, Chen Chu. As her venerable
ladyship, in her tender love for Pao-yue, had feared that Pao-yue's
servant girls were not equal to their duties, she readily handed her to
Pao-yue, as she had hitherto had experience of how sincere and
considerate she was at heart.

Pao-yue, knowing that her surname was at one time Hua, and having once
seen in some verses of an ancient poet, the line "the fragrance of
flowers wafts itself into man," lost no time in explaining the fact to
dowager lady Chia, who at once changed her name into Hsi Jen.

This Hsi Jen had several simple traits. While in attendance upon dowager
lady Chia, in her heart and her eyes there was no one but her venerable
ladyship, and her alone; and now in her attendance upon Pao-yue, her
heart and her eyes were again full of Pao-yue, and him alone. But as
Pao-yue was of a perverse temperament and did not heed her repeated
injunctions, she felt at heart exceedingly grieved.

At night, after nurse Li had fallen asleep, seeing that in the inner
chambers, Tai-yue, Ying Ko and the others had not as yet retired to rest,
she disrobed herself, and with gentle step walked in.

"How is it, miss," she inquired smiling, "that you have not turned in as
yet?"

Tai-yue at once put on a smile. "Sit down, sister," she rejoined,
pressing her to take a seat. Hsi Jen sat on the edge of the bed.

"Miss Lin," interposed Ying Ko smirkingly, "has been here in an awful
state of mind! She has cried so to herself, that her eyes were flooded,
as soon as she dried her tears. 'It's only to-day that I've come,' she
said, 'and I've already been the cause of the outbreak of your young
master's failing. Now had he broken that jade, as he hurled it on the
ground, wouldn't it have been my fault? Hence it was that she was so
wounded at heart, that I had all the trouble in the world, before I
could appease her."

"Desist at once, Miss! Don't go on like this," Hsi Jen advised her;
"there will, I fear, in the future, happen things far more strange and
ridiculous than this; and if you allow yourself to be wounded and
affected to such a degree by a conduct such as his, you will, I
apprehend, suffer endless wounds and anguish; so be quick and dispel
this over-sensitive nature!"

"What you sisters advise me," replied Tai-yue, "I shall bear in mind, and
it will be all right."

They had another chat, which lasted for some time, before they at length
retired to rest for the night.

The next day, (she and her cousins) got up at an early hour and went
over to pay their respects to dowager lady Chia, after which upon coming
to madame Wang's apartments, they happened to find madame Wang and
Hsi-feng together, opening the letters which had arrived from Chin Ling.
There were also in the room two married women, who had been sent from
madame Wang's elder brother's wife's house to deliver a message.

Tai-yue was, it is true, not aware of what was up, but T'an Ch'un and the
others knew that they were discussing the son of her mother's sister,
married in the Hsueeh family, in the city of Chin Ling, a cousin of
theirs, Hsueeh P'an, who relying upon his wealth and influence had, by
assaulting a man, committed homicide, and who was now to be tried in the
court of the Ying T'ien Prefecture.

Her maternal uncle, Wang Tzu-t'eng, had now, on the receipt of the
tidings, despatched messengers to bring over the news to the Chia
family. But the next chapter will explain what was the ultimate issue of
the wish entertained in this mansion to send for the Hsueeh family to
come to the capital.




CHAPTER IV.

  An ill-fated girl happens to meet an ill-fated young man.
  The Hu Lu Bonze adjudicates the Hu Lu case.


Tai-yue, for we shall now return to our story, having come, along with
her cousin to madame Wang's apartments, found madame Wang discussing
certain domestic occurrences with the messengers, who had arrived from
her elder brother's wife's home, and conversing also about the case of
homicide, in which the family of her mother's sister had become
involved, and other such relevant topics. Perceiving how pressing and
perplexing were the matters in which madame Wang was engaged, the young
ladies promptly left her apartments, and came over to the rooms of their
widow sister-in-law, Mrs. Li.

This Mrs. Li had originally been the spouse of Chia Chu. Although Chu
had died at an early age, he had the good fortune of leaving behind him
a son, to whom the name of Chia Lan was given. He was, at this period,
just in his fifth year, and had already entered school, and applied
himself to books.

This Mrs. Li was also the daughter of an official of note in Chin Ling.
Her father's name was Li Shou-chung, who had, at one time, been Imperial
Libationer. Among his kindred, men as well as women had all devoted
themselves to poetry and letters; but ever since Li Shou-chung continued
the line of succession, he readily asserted that the absence of literary
attainments in his daughter was indeed a virtue, so that it soon came
about that she did not apply herself in real earnest to learning; with
the result that all she studied were some parts of the "Four Books for
women," and the "Memoirs of excellent women," that all she read did not
extend beyond a limited number of characters, and that all she committed
to memory were the examples of these few worthy female characters of
dynasties of yore; while she attached special importance to spinning and
female handiwork. To this reason is to be assigned the name selected for
her, of Li Wan (Li, the weaver), and the style of Kung Ts'ai (Palace
Sempstress).

Hence it was that, though this Li Wan still continued, after the loss of
her mate, while she was as yet in the spring of her life, to live amidst
affluence and luxury, she nevertheless resembled in every respect a
block of rotten wood or dead ashes. She had no inclination whatsoever to
inquire after anything or to listen to anything; while her sole and
exclusive thought was to wait upon her relatives and educate her son;
and, in addition to this, to teach her young sisters-in-law to do
needlework and to read aloud.

Tai-yue was, it is true, at this period living as a guest in the Chia
mansion, where she certainly had the several young ladies to associate
with her, but, outside her aged father, (she thought) there was really
no need for her to extend affection to any of the rest.

But we will now speak of Chia Yue-ts'un. Having obtained the appointment
of Prefect of Ying T'ien, he had no sooner arrived at his post than a
charge of manslaughter was laid before his court. This had arisen from
some rivalry between two parties in the purchase of a slave-girl, either
of whom would not yield his right; with the result that a serious
assault occurred, which ended in homicide.

Yue-ts'un had, with all promptitude, the servants of the plaintiffs
brought before him, and subjected them to an examination.

"The victim of the assault," the plaintiffs deposed, "was your servants'
master. Having on a certain day, purchased a servant-girl, she
unexpectedly turned out to be a girl who had been carried away and sold
by a kidnapper. This kidnapper had, first of all, got hold of our
family's money, and our master had given out that he would on the third
day, which was a propitious day, take her over into the house, but
this kidnapper stealthily sold her over again to the Hsueeh family. When
we came to know of this, we went in search of the seller to lay hold of
him, and bring back the girl by force. But the Hsueeh party has been all
along _the_ bully of Chin Ling, full of confidence in his wealth,
full of presumption on account of his prestige; and his arrogant menials
in a body seized our master and beat him to death. The murderous master
and his crew have all long ago made good their escape, leaving no trace
behind them, while there only remain several parties not concerned in
the affair. Your servants have for a whole year lodged complaints, but
there has been no one to do our cause justice, and we therefore implore
your Lordship to have the bloodstained criminals arrested, and thus
conduce to the maintenance of humanity and benevolence; and the living,
as well as the dead, will feel boundless gratitude for this heavenly
bounty."

When Yue-ts'un heard their appeal, he flew into a fiery rage. "What!" he
exclaimed. "How could a case of such gravity have taken place as the
murder of a man, and the culprits have been allowed to run away
scot-free, without being arrested? Issue warrants, and despatch
constables to at once lay hold of the relatives of the bloodstained
criminals and bring them to be examined by means of torture."

Thereupon he espied a Retainer, who was standing by the judgment-table,
wink at him, signifying that he should not issue the warrants. Yue-t'sun
gave way to secret suspicion, and felt compelled to desist.

Withdrawing from the Court-room, he retired into a private chamber, from
whence he dismissed his followers, only keeping this single Retainer to
wait upon him.

The Retainer speedily advanced and paid his obeisance. "Your worship,"
he said smiling, "has persistently been rising in official honours, and
increasing in wealth so that, in the course of about eight or nine
years, you have forgotten me."

"Your face is, however, extremely familiar," observed Yue-ts'un, "but I
cannot, for the moment, recall who you are."

"Honourable people forget many things," remarked the Retainer, as he
smiled. "What! Have you even forgotten the place where you started in
life? and do you not remember what occurred, in years gone by, in the Hu
Lu Temple?"

Yue-ts'un was filled with extreme astonishment; and past events then
began to dawn upon him.

The fact is that this Retainer had been at one time a young priest in
the Hu Lu temple; but as, after its destruction by fire, he had no place
to rest his frame, he remembered how light and easy was, after all, this
kind of occupation, and being unable to reconcile himself to the
solitude and quiet of a temple, he accordingly availed himself of his
years, which were as yet few, to let his hair grow, and become a
retainer.

Yue-ts'un had had no idea that it was he. Hastily taking his hand in his,
he smilingly observed, "You are, indeed, an old acquaintance!" and then
pressed him to take a seat, so as to have a chat with more ease, but the
Retainer would not presume to sit down.

"Friendships," Yue-ts'un remarked, putting on a smiling expression,
"contracted in poor circumstances should not be forgotten! This is a
private room; so that if you sat down, what would it matter?"

The Retainer thereupon craved permission to take a seat, and sat down
gingerly, all awry.

"Why did you, a short while back," Yue-ts'un inquired, "not allow me to
issue the warrants?"

"Your illustrious office," replied the Retainer, "has brought your
worship here, and is it likely you have not transcribed some philactery
of your post in this province!"

"What is an office-philactery?" asked Yue-ts'un with alacrity.

"Now-a-days," explained the Retainer, "those who become local officers
provide themselves invariably with a secret list, in which are entered
the names and surnames of the most influential and affluent gentry of
note in the province. This is in vogue in every province. Should
inadvertently, at any moment, one give umbrage to persons of this
status, why, not only office, but I fear even one's life, it would be
difficult to preserve. That's why these lists are called
office-philacteries. This Hsueeh family, just a while back spoken of, how
could your worship presume to provoke? This case in question affords no
difficulties whatever in the way of a settlement; but the prefects, who
have held office before you, have all, by doing violence to the feelings
and good name of these people, come to the end they did."

As he uttered these words, he produced, from inside a purse which he had
handy, a transcribed office-philactery, which he handed over to
Yue-ts'un; who upon perusal, found it full of trite and unpolished
expressions of public opinion, with regard to the leading clans and
notable official families in that particular district. They ran as
follows:

The "Chia" family is not "chia," a myth; white jade form the Halls; gold
compose their horses! The "A Fang" Palace is three hundred li in extent,
but is no fit residence for a "Shih" of Chin Ling. The eastern seas lack
white jade beds, and the "Lung Wang," king of the Dragons, has come to
ask for one of the Chin Ling Wang, (Mr. Wang of Chin Ling.) In a
plenteous year, snow, (Hsueeh,) is very plentiful; their pearls and gems
are like sand, their gold like iron.

Scarcely had Yue-ts'un done reading, when suddenly was heard the
announcement, communicated by the beating of a gong, that Mr. Wang had
come to pay his respects.

Yue-ts'un hastily adjusted his official clothes and hat, and went out of
the room to greet and receive the visitor. Returning after a short while
he proceeded to question the Retainer (about what he had been perusing.)

"These four families," explained the Retainer, "are all interlaced by
ties of relationship, so that if you offend one, you offend all; if you
honour one, you honour all. For support and protection, they all have
those to take care of their interests! Now this Hsueeh, who is charged
with homicide, is indeed the Hsueeh implied by 'in a plenteous year,
(Hsueeh,) snow, is very plentiful.' In fact, not only has he these three
families to rely upon, but his (father's) old friends, and his own
relatives and friends are both to be found in the capital, as well as
abroad in the provinces; and they are, what is more, not few in number.
Who is it then that your Worship purposes having arrested?"

When Yue-ts'un had heard these remarks, he forthwith put on a smile and
inquired of the Retainer, "If what you say be true, how is then this
lawsuit to be settled? Are you also perchance well aware of the place of
retreat of this homicide?"

"I don't deceive your Worship," the Retainer ventured smiling, "when I
say that not only do I know the hiding-place of this homicide, but that
I also am acquainted with the man who kidnapped and sold the girl; I
likewise knew full well the poor devil and buyer, now deceased. But
wait, and I'll tell your worship all, with full details. This person,
who succumbed to the assault, was the son of a minor gentry. His name
was Feng Yuean. His father and mother are both deceased, and he has
likewise no brothers. He looked after some scanty property in order to
eke out a living. His age was eighteen or nineteen; and he had a strong
penchant for men's, and not much for women's society. But this was too
the retribution (for sins committed) in a previous existence! for
coming, by a strange coincidence, in the way of this kidnapper, who was
selling the maid, he straightway at a glance fell in love with this
girl, and made up his mind to purchase her and make her his second wife;
entering an oath not to associate with any male friends, nor even to
marry another girl. And so much in earnest was he in this matter that he
had to wait until after the third day before she could enter his
household (so as to make the necessary preparations for the marriage).
But who would have foreseen the issue? This kidnapper quietly disposed
of her again by sale to the Hsueeh family; his intention being to pocket
the price-money from both parties, and effect his escape. Contrary to
his calculations, he couldn't after all run away in time, and the two
buyers laid hold of him and beat him, till he was half dead; but neither
of them would take his coin back, each insisting upon the possession of
the girl. But do you think that young gentleman, Mr. Hsueeh, would yield
his claim to her person? Why, he at once summoned his servants and bade
them have recourse to force; and, taking this young man Feng, they
assailed him till they made mincemeat of him. He was then carried back
to his home, where he finally died after the expiry of three days. This
young Mr. Hsueeh had previously chosen a day, on which he meant to set
out for the capital, and though he had beaten the young man Feng to
death, and carried off the girl, he nevertheless behaved in the manner
of a man who had had no concern in the affair. And all he gave his mind
to was to take his family and go along on his way; but not in any wise
in order to evade (the consequences) of this (occurrence). This case of
homicide, (he looked upon) as a most trivial and insignificant matter,
which, (he thought), his brother and servants, who were on the spot,
would be enough to settle. But, however, enough of this person. Now does
your worship know who this girl is who was sold?"

"How could I possibly know?" answered Yue-ts'un.

"And yet," remarked the Retainer, as he laughed coldly, "this is a
person to whom you are indebted for great obligations; for she is no one
else than the daughter of Mr. Chen, who lived next door to the Hu Lu
temple. Her infant name is 'Ying Lien.'"

"What! is it really she?" exclaimed Yue-ts'un full of surprise. "I heard
that she had been kidnapped, ever since she was five years old; but has
she only been sold recently?"

"Kidnappers of this kind," continued the Retainer, "only abduct infant
girls, whom they bring up till they reach the age of twelve or thirteen,
when they take them into strange districts and dispose of them through
their agents. In days gone by, we used daily to coax this girl, Ying
Lien, to romp with us, so that we got to be exceedingly friendly. Hence
it is that though, with the lapse of seven or eight years, her mien has
assumed a more surpassingly lovely appearance, her general features
have, on the other hand, undergone no change; and this is why I can
recognise her. Besides, in the centre of her two eyebrows, she had a
spot, of the size of a grain of rice, of carnation colour, which she has
had ever since she was born into the world. This kidnapper, it also
happened, rented my house to live in; and on a certain day, on which the
kidnapper was not at home, I even set her a few questions. She said,
'that the kidnapper had so beaten her, that she felt intimidated, and
couldn't on any account, venture to speak out; simply averring that the
kidnapper was her own father, and that, as he had no funds to repay his
debts, he had consequently disposed of her by sale!' I tried time after
time to induce her to answer me, but she again gave way to tears and
added no more than: 'I don't really remember anything of my youth.' Of
this, anyhow, there can be no doubt; on a certain day the young man Feng
and the kidnapper met, said the money was paid down; but as the
kidnapper happened to be intoxicated, Ying Lien exclaimed, as she
sighed: 'My punishment has this day been consummated!' Later on again,
when she heard that young Feng would, after three days, have her taken
over to his house, she once more underwent a change and put on such a
sorrowful look that, unable to brook the sight of it, I waited till the
kidnapper went out, when I again told my wife to go and cheer her by
representing to her that this Mr. Feng's fixed purpose to wait for a
propitious day, on which to come and take her over, was ample proof that
he would not look upon her as a servant-girl. 'Furthermore,' (explained
my wife to her), 'he is a sort of person exceedingly given to fast
habits, and has at home ample means to live upon, so that if, besides,
with his extreme aversion to women, he actually purchases you now, at a
fancy price, you should be able to guess the issue, without any
explanation. You have to bear suspense only for two or three days, and
what need is there to be sorrowful and dejected?' After these
assurances, she became somewhat composed, flattering herself that she
would from henceforth have a home of her own.

"But who would believe that the world is but full of disappointments! On
the succeeding day, it came about that the kidnapper again sold her to
the Hsueeh family! Had he disposed of her to any other party, no harm
would anyhow have resulted; but this young gentleman Hsueeh, who is
nicknamed by all, 'the Foolish and overbearing Prince,' is the most
perverse and passionate being in the whole world. What is more, he
throws money away as if it were dust. The day on which he gave the
thrashing with blows like falling leaves and flowing water, he dragged
(_lit_. pull alive, drag dead) Ying Lien away more dead than alive,
by sheer force, and no one, even up to this date, is aware whether she
be among the dead or the living. This young Feng had a spell of empty
happiness; for (not only) was his wish not fulfilled, but on the
contrary he spent money and lost his life; and was not this a lamentable
case?"

When Yue-ts'un heard this account he also heaved a sigh. "This was
indeed," he observed, "a retribution in store for them! Their encounter
was likewise not accidental; for had it been, how was it that this Feng
Yuean took a fancy to Ying Lien?

"This Ying Lien had, during all these years, to endure much harsh
treatment from the hands of the kidnapper, and had, at length, obtained
the means of escape; and being besides full of warm feeling, had he
actually made her his wife, and had they come together, the event would
certainly have been happy; but, as luck would have it, there occurred
again this contretemps.

"This Hsueeh is, it is true, more laden with riches and honours than Feng
was, but when we bear in mind what kind of man he is he certainly, with
his large bevy of handmaids, and his licentious and inordinate habits,
cannot ever be held equal to Feng Yuean, who had set his heart upon one
person! This may appositely be termed a fantastic sentimental destiny,
which, by a strange coincidence, befell a couple consisting of an
ill-fated young fellow and girl! But why discuss third parties? The only
thing now is how to decide this case, so as to put things right."

"Your worship," remarked the Retainer smiling, "displayed, in years gone
by, such great intelligence and decision, and how is it that today you,
on the contrary, become a person without any resources! Your servant has
heard that the promotion of your worship to fill up this office is due
to the exertions of the Chia and Wang families; and as this Hsueeh P'an
is a relative of the Chia mansion, why doesn't your worship take your
craft along with the stream, and bring, by the performance of a
kindness, this case to an issue, so that you may again in days to come,
be able to go and face the two Dukes Chia and Wang?"

"What you suggest," replied Yue-ts'un, "is, of course, right enough; but
this case involves a human life, and honoured as I have been, by His
Majesty the Emperor, by a restoration to office, and selection to an
appointment, how can I at the very moment, when I may strain all my
energies to show my gratitude, by reason of a private consideration, set
the laws at nought? This is a thing which I really haven't the courage
to do."

"What your worship says is naturally right and proper," remarked the
Retainer at these words, smiling sarcastically, "but at the present
stage of the world, such things cannot be done. Haven't you heard the
saying of a man of old to the effect that great men take action suitable
to the times. 'He who presses,' he adds, 'towards what is auspicious and
avoids what is inauspicious is a perfect man.' From what your worship
says, not only you couldn't, by any display of zeal, repay your
obligation to His Majesty, but, what is more, your own life you will
find it difficult to preserve. There are still three more considerations
necessary to insure a safe settlement."

Yue-ts'un drooped his head for a considerable time.

"What is there in your idea to be done?" he at length inquired.

"Your servant," responded the Retainer, "has already devised a most
excellent plan. It's this: To-morrow, when your Lordship sits in court,
you should, merely for form's sake, make much ado, by despatching
letters and issuing warrants for the arrest of the culprits. The
murderer will naturally not be forthcoming; and as the plaintiffs will
be strong in their displeasure, you will of course have some members of
the clan of the Hsueeh family, together with a few servants and others,
taken into custody, and examined under torture, when your servant will
be behind the scenes to bring matters to a settlement, by bidding them
report that the victim had succumbed to a sudden ailment, and by urging
the whole number of the kindred, as well as the headmen of the place, to
hand in a declaration to that effect. Your Worship can aver that you
understand perfectly how to write charms in dust, and conjure the
spirit; having had an altar, covered with dust, placed in the court, you
should bid the military and people to come and look on to their heart's
content. Your Worship can give out that the divining spirit has
declared: 'that the deceased, Feng Yuean, and Hsueeh P'an had been enemies
in a former life, that having now met in the narrow road, their
destinies were consummated; that Hsueeh P'an has, by this time,
contracted some indescribable disease and perished from the effects of
the persecution of the spirit of Feng.' That as the calamity had
originated entirely from the action of the kidnapper, exclusive of
dealing with the kidnapper according to law, the rest need not be
interfered with, and so on. Your servant will be in the background to
speak to the kidnapper and urge him to make a full confession; and when
people find that the response of the divining spirit harmonizes with the
statements of the kidnapper, they will, as a matter of course, entertain
no suspicion.

"The Hsueeh family have plenty of money, so that if your Worship
adjudicates that they should pay five hundred, they can afford it, or
one thousand will also be within their means; and this sum can be handed
to the Feng family to meet the outlay of burning incense and burial
expenses. The Feng family are, besides, people of not much consequence,
and (the fuss made by them) being simply for money, they too will, when
they have got the cash in hand, have nothing more to say. But may it
please your worship to consider carefully this plan and see what you
think of it?"

"It isn't a safe course! It isn't a safe course!" Yue-ts'un observed as
he smiled. "Let me further think and deliberate; and possibly by
succeeding in suppressing public criticism, the matter might also be
settled."

These two closed their consultation by a fixed determination, and the
next day, when he sat in judgment, he marked off a whole company of the
plaintiffs as well as of the accused, as were mentioned by name, and had
them brought before him. Yue-ts'un examined them with additional
minuteness, and discovered in point of fact, that the inmates of the
Feng family were extremely few, that they merely relied upon this charge
with the idea of obtaining some compensation for joss-sticks and
burials; and that the Hsueeh family, presuming on their prestige and
confident of patronage, had been obstinate in the refusal to make any
mutual concession, with the result that confusion had supervened, and
that no decision had been arrived at.

Following readily the bent of his feelings, Yue-ts'un disregarded the
laws, and adjudicated this suit in a random way; and as the Feng family
came in for a considerable sum, with which to meet the expense for
incense and the funeral, they had, after all, not very much to say (in
the way of objections.)

With all despatch, Yue-ts'un wrote and forwarded two letters, one to Chia
Cheng, and the other to Wang Tzu-t'eng, at that time commander-in-chief
of a Metropolitan Division, simply informing them: that the case, in
which their worthy nephew was concerned, had come to a close, and that
there was no need for them to give way to any extreme solicitude.

This case had been settled through the exclusive action of the young
priest of the Hu Lu temple, now an official Retainer; and Yue-ts'un,
apprehending, on the other hand, lest he might in the presence of
others, divulge the circumstances connected with the days gone by, when
he was in a state of penury, naturally felt very unhappy in his mind.
But at a later period, he succeeded, by ultimately finding in him some
shortcoming, and deporting him to a far-away place, in setting his fears
at rest.

But we will put Yue-ts'un on one side, and refer to the young man Hsueeh,
who purchased Ying Lien, and assaulted Feng Yuan to death.

He too was a native of Chin Ling and belonged to a family literary
during successive generations; but this young Hsueeh had recently, when
of tender age, lost his father, and his widowed mother out of pity for
his being the only male issue and a fatherless child, could not help
doating on him and indulging him to such a degree, that when he, in
course of time, grew up to years of manhood, he was good for nothing.

In their home, furthermore, was the wealth of a millionaire, and they
were, at this time, in receipt of an income from His Majesty's privy
purse, for the purvey of various articles.

This young Hsueeh went at school under the name of P'an. His style was
Wen Ch'i. His natural habits were extravagant; his language haughty and
supercilious. He had, of course, also been to school, but all he knew
was a limited number of characters, and those not well. The whole day
long, his sole delight was in cock-fighting and horse-racing, rambling
over hills and doing the sights.

Though a Purveyor, by Imperial appointment, he had not the least idea of
anything relating to matters of business or of the world. All he was
good for was: to take advantage of the friendships enjoyed by his
grandfather in days of old, to present himself at the Board of Revenue
to perfunctorily sign his name and to draw the allowance and rations;
while the rest of his affairs he, needless to say, left his partners and
old servants of the family to manage for him.

His widowed mother, a Miss Wang, was the youngest sister of Wang
Tzu-t'eng, whose present office was that of Commander-in-Chief of a
Metropolitan Division; and was, with Madame Wang, the spouse of Chia
Cheng, of the Jung Kuo Mansion, sisters born of one mother. She was, in
this year, more or less forty years of age and had only one son: this
Hsueeh P'an.

She also had a daughter, who was two years younger than Hsueeh P'an, and
whose infant name was Pao Ch'ai. She was beautiful in appearance, and
elegant and refined in deportment. In days gone by, when her father
lived, he was extremely fond of this girl, and had her read books and
study characters, so that, as compared with her brother, she was
actually a hundred times his superior. Having become aware, ever since
her father's death, that her brother could not appease the anguish of
her mother's heart, she at once dispelled all thoughts of books, and
gave her sole mind to needlework, to the menage and other such concerns,
so as to be able to participate in her mother's sorrow, and to bear the
fatigue in lieu of her.

As of late the Emperor on the Throne held learning and propriety in high
esteem, His Majesty called together and singled out talent and ability,
upon which he deigned to display exceptional grace and favour. Besides
the number called forth from private life and chosen as Imperial
secondary wives, the daughters of families of hereditary official status
and renown were without exception, reported by name to the authorities,
and communicated to the Board, in anticipation of the selection for
maids in waiting to the Imperial Princesses and daughters of Imperial
Princes in their studies, and for filling up the offices of persons of
eminence, to urge them to become excellent.

Ever since the death of Hsueeh P'an's father, the various assistants,
managers and partners, and other employes in the respective provinces,
perceiving how youthful Hsueeh P'an was in years, and how much he lacked
worldly experience, readily availed themselves of the time to begin
swindling and defrauding. The business, carried on in various different
places in the capital, gradually also began to fall off and to show a
deficit.

Hsueeh P'an had all along heard that the capital was the _one_ place
for gaieties, and was just entertaining the idea of going on a visit,
when he eagerly jumped at the opportunity (that presented itself,) first
of all to escort his sister, who was going to wait for the selection, in
the second place to see his relatives, and in the third to enter
personally the capital, (professedly) to settle up long-standing
accounts, and to make arrangements for new outlays, but, in reality,
with the sole purpose of seeing the life and splendour of the
metropolis.

He therefore, had, at an early period, got ready his baggage and small
luggage, as well as the presents for relatives and friends, things of
every description of local production, presents in acknowledgment of
favours received, and other such effects, and he was about to choose a
day to start on his journey when unexpectedly he came in the way of the
kidnapper who offered Ying Lien for sale. As soon as Hsueeh P'an saw how
_distinguee_ Ying Lien was in her appearance, he formed the
resolution of buying her; and when he encountered Feng Yuean, come with
the object of depriving him of her, he in the assurance of superiority,
called his sturdy menials together, who set upon Feng Yuean and beat him
to death. Forthwith collecting all the affairs of the household, and
entrusting them one by one to the charge of some members of the clan and
several elderly servants of the family, he promptly took his mother,
sister and others and after all started on his distant journey, while
the charge of homicide he, however, treated as child's play, flattering
himself that if he spent a few filthy pieces of money, there was no
doubt as to its settlement.

He had been on his journey how many days, he had not reckoned, when, on
a certain day, as they were about to enter the capital, he furthermore
heard that his maternal uncle, Wang Tzu-t'eng, had been raised to the
rank of Supreme Governor of nine provinces, and had been honoured with
an Imperial command to leave the capital and inspect the frontiers.

Hsueeh P'an was at heart secretly elated. "I was just lamenting," he
thought, "that on my visit to the capital, I would have my maternal
uncle to exercise control over me, and that I wouldn't be able to gambol
and frisk to my heart's content, but now that he is leaving the capital,
on promotion, it's evident that Heaven accomplishes man's wishes."

As he consequently held consultation with his mother; "Though we have,"
he argued, "several houses of our own in the capital, yet for these last
ten years or so, there has been no one to live in them, and the people
charged with the looking after them must unavoidably have stealthily
rented them to some one or other. It's therefore needful to let servants
go ahead to sweep and get the place in proper order, before we can very
well go ourselves."

"What need is there to go to such trouble?" retorted his mother; "the
main object of our present visit to the capital is first of all to pay
our respects to our relatives and friends; and it is, either at your
elder uncle's, my brother's place, or at your other uncle's, my sister's
husband's home, both of which families' houses are extremely spacious,
that we can put up provisionally, and by and bye, at our ease, we can
send servants to make our house tidy. Now won't this be a considerable
saving of trouble?"

"My uncle, your brother," suggested Hsueeh P'an, "has just been raised to
an appointment in an outside province, so that, of course, in his house,
things must be topsy-turvey, on account of his departure; and should we
betake ourselves, like a hive of bees and a long trail, to him for
shelter; won't we appear very inconsiderate?"

"Your uncle," remarked his mother, "is, it is true, going on promotion,
but there's besides the house of your aunt, my sister. What is more,
during these last few years from both your uncle's and aunt's have, time
after time, been sent messages, and letters forwarded, asking us to come
over; and now that we've come, is it likely, though your uncle is busy
with his preparations to start on his journey, that your aunt of the
Chia family won't do all she can to press us to stay? Besides, were we
to have our house got ready in a scramble, won't it make people think it
strange? I however know your idea very well that were we kept to stay at
your uncle's and aunt's, you won't escape being under strict restraint,
unlike what would be the case were we to live in our own house, as you
would be free then to act as you please! Such being the case, go, on
your own account, and choose some place to take up your quarters in,
while I myself, who have been separated from your aunt and cousins for
these several years, would however like to stay with them for a few
days; and I'll go along with your sister and look up your aunt at her
home. What do you say; will this suit you or not?"

Hsueeh P'an, upon hearing his mother speak in this strain, knew well
enough that he could not bring her round from her determination; and he
had no help but to issue the necessary directions to the servants to
make straight for the Jung Kuo mansion. Madame Wang had by this time
already come to know that in the lawsuit, in which Hsueeh P'an was
concerned, Chia Yue-ts'un had fortunately intervened and lent his good
offices, and was at length more composed in her mind. But when she again
saw that her eldest brother had been advanced to a post on the frontier,
she was just deploring that, deprived of the intercourse of the
relatives of her mother's family, how doubly lonely she would feel;
when, after the lapse of a few days, some one of the household brought
the unexpected announcement that "our lady, your sister, has, with the
young gentleman, the young lady and her whole household, entered the
capital and have dismounted from their vehicles outside the main
entrance." This news so delighted madame Wang that she rushed out, with
a few attendants, to greet them in the large Entrance Hall, and brought
Mrs. Hsueeh and the others into her house.

The two sisters were now reunited, at an advanced period of their lives,
so that mixed feelings of sorrow and joy thronged together, but on these
it is, of course, needless to dilate.

After conversing for a time on what had occurred, subsequent to their
separation, madame Wang took them to pay their obeisance to dowager lady
Chia. They then handed over the various kinds of presents and indigenous
articles, and after the whole family had been introduced, a banquet was
also spread to greet the guests.

Hsueeh P'an, having paid his respects to Chia Cheng and Chia Lien, was
likewise taken to see Chia She, Chia Chen and the other members.

Chia Cheng sent a messenger to tell madame Wang that "'aunt' Hsueeh had
already seen many springs and autumns, while their nephew was of tender
age, with no experience, so that there was every fear, were he to live
outside, that something would again take place. In the South-east corner
of our compound," (he sent word,) "there are in the Pear Fragrance
Court, over ten apartments, all of which are vacant and lying idle; and
were we to tell the servants to sweep them, and invite 'aunt' Hsueeh and
the young gentleman and lady to take up their quarters there, it would
be an extremely wise thing."

Madame Wang had in fact been entertaining the wish to keep them to live
with them, when dowager lady Chia also sent some one to say that, "Mrs.
Hsueeh should be asked to put up in the mansion in order that a greater
friendliness should exist between them all."

Mrs. Hsueeh herself had all along been desirous to live in one place with
her relatives, so as to be able to keep a certain check over her son,
fearing that, if they lived in a separate house outside, the natural
bent of his habits would run riot, and that some calamity would be
brought on; and she therefore, there and then, expressed her sense of
appreciation, and accepted the invitation. She further privately told
madame Wang in clear terms, that every kind of daily expense and general
contribution would have to be entirely avoided and withdrawn as that
would be the only thing to justify her to make any protracted stay. And
madame Wang aware that she had, in her home, no difficulty in this line,
promptly in fact complied with her wishes.

From this date it was that "aunt" Hsueeh and her children took up their
quarters in the Pear Fragrance Court.

This Court of Pear Fragrance had, we must explain, been at one time used
as a place for the quiet retirement of the Duke Jung in his advanced
years. It was on a small scale, but ingeniously laid out. There were, at
least, over ten structures. The front halls and the back houses were all
in perfect style. There was a separate door giving on to the street, and
the people of the household of Hsueeh P'an used this door to go in and
out. At the south-west quarter, there was also a side door, which
communicated with a narrow roadway. Beyond this narrow road, was the
eastern court of madame Wang's principal apartment; so that every day,
either after her repast, or in the evening, Mrs. Hsueeh would readily
come over and converse, on one thing and another, with dowager lady
Chia, or have a chat with madame Wang; while Pao-ch'ai came together,
day after day, with Tai yue, Ying-ch'un, her sisters and the other girls,
either to read, to play chess, or to do needlework, and the pleasure
which they derived was indeed perfect.

Hsueeh P'an however had all along from the first instance, been loth to
live in the Chia mansion, as he dreaded that with the discipline
enforced by his uncle, he would not be able to be his own master; but
his mother had made up her mind so positively to remain there, and what
was more, every one in the Chia mansion was most pressing in their
efforts to keep them, that there was no alternative for him but to take
up his quarters temporarily there, while he at the same time directed
servants to go and sweep the apartments of their own house, with a view
that they should move into them when they were ready.

But, contrary to expectation, after they had been in their quarters for
not over a month, Hsueeh P'an came to be on intimate relations with all
the young men among the kindred of the Chia mansion, the half of whom
were extravagant in their habits, so that great was, of course, his
delight to frequent them. To-day, they would come together to drink
wine; the next day to look at flowers. They even assembled to gamble, to
dissipate and to go everywhere and anywhere; leading, with all their
enticements, Hsueeh P'an so far astray, that he became far worse, by a
hundred times, than he was hitherto.

Although it must be conceded that Chia Cheng was in the education of his
children quite correct, and in the control of his family quite
systematic, yet in the first place, the clan was so large and the
members so numerous, that he was unable to attend to the entire
supervision; and, in the second place, the head of the family, at this
period, was Chia Chen, who, as the eldest grandchild of the Ning
mansion, had likewise now come into the inheritance of the official
status, with the result that all matters connected with the clan
devolved upon his sole and exclusive control. In the third place, public
as well as private concerns were manifold and complex, and being a man
of negligent disposition, he estimated ordinary affairs of so little
consequence that any respite from his official duties he devoted to no
more than the study of books and the playing of chess.

Furthermore, this Pear Fragrance Court was separated by two rows of
buildings from his quarters and was also provided with a separate door
opening into the street, so that, being able at their own heart's desire
to go out and to come in, these several young fellows could well indulge
their caprices, and gratify the bent of their minds.

Hence it was that Hsueeh P'an, in course of time gradually extinguished
from his memory every idea of shifting their quarters.

But what transpired, on subsequent days, the following chapter will
explain.




CHAPTER V.

  The spirit of Chia Pao-yue visits the confines of the Great Void.
  The Monitory Vision Fairy expounds, in ballads, the Dream of the Red
      Chamber.


Having in the fourth Chapter explained, to some degree, the
circumstances attending the settlement of the mother and children of the
Hsueeh family in the Jung mansion, and other incidental matters, we will
now revert to Lin Tai-yue.

Ever since her arrival in the Jung mansion, dowager lady Chia showed her
the highest sympathy and affection, so that in everything connected with
sleeping, eating, rising and accommodation she was on the same footing
as Pao-yue; with the result that Ying Ch'un, Hsi Ch'un and T'an Ch'un,
her three granddaughters, had after all to take a back seat. In fact,
the intimate and close friendliness and love which sprung up between the
two persons Pao-yue and Tai-yue, was, in the same degree, of an
exceptional kind, as compared with those existing between the others. By
daylight they were wont to walk together, and to sit together. At night,
they would desist together, and rest together. Really it was a case of
harmony in language and concord in ideas, of the consistency of varnish
or of glue, (a close friendship), when at this unexpected juncture there
came this girl, Hsueeh Pao-ch'ai, who, though not very much older in
years (than the others), was, nevertheless, in manner so correct, and in
features so beautiful that the consensus of opinion was that Tai-yue
herself could not come up to her standard.

What is more, in her ways Pao-Ch'ai was so full of good tact, so
considerate and accommodating, so unlike Tai-yue, who was supercilious,
self-confident, and without any regard for the world below, that the
natural consequence was that she soon completely won the hearts of the
lower classes. Even the whole number of waiting-maids would also for the
most part, play and joke with Pao-ch'ai. Hence it was that Tai-yue
fostered, in her heart, considerable feelings of resentment, but of this
however Pao-ch'ai had not the least inkling.

Pao-yue was, likewise, in the prime of his boyhood, and was, besides, as
far as the bent of his natural disposition was concerned, in every
respect absurd and perverse; regarding his cousins, whether male or
female, one and all with one common sentiment, and without any
distinction whatever between the degrees of distant or close
relationship. Sitting and sleeping, as he now was under the same roof
with Tai-yue in dowager lady Chia's suite of rooms, he naturally became
comparatively more friendly with her than with his other cousins; and
this friendliness led to greater intimacy and this intimacy once
established, rendered unavoidable the occurrence of the blight of
harmony from unforeseen slight pretexts.

These two had had on this very day, for some unknown reason, words
between them more or less unfriendly, and Tai-yue was again sitting all
alone in her room, giving way to tears. Pao-yue was once more within
himself quite conscience-smitten for his ungraceful remarks, and coming
forward, he humbly made advances, until, at length, Tai-yue little by
little came round.

As the plum blossom, in the eastern part of the garden of the Ning
mansion, was in full bloom, Chia Chen's spouse, Mrs. Yu, made
preparations for a collation, (purposing) to send invitations to dowager
lady Chia, mesdames Hsing, and Wang, and the other members of the
family, to come and admire the flowers; and when the day arrived the
first thing she did was to take Chia Jung and his wife, the two of them,
and come and ask them round in person. Dowager lady Chia and the other
inmates crossed over after their early meal; and they at once promenaded
the Hui Fang (Concentrated Fragrance) Garden. First tea was served, and
next wine; but the entertainment was no more than a family banquet of
the kindred of the two mansions of Ning and Jung, so that there was a
total lack of any novel or original recreation that could be put on
record.

After a little time, Pao-yue felt tired and languid and inclined for his
midday siesta. "Take good care," dowager lady Chia enjoined some of
them, "and stay with him, while he rests for a while, when he can come
back;" whereupon Chia Jung's wife, Mrs. Ch'in, smiled and said with
eagerness: "We got ready in here a room for uncle Pao, so let your
venerable ladyship set your mind at ease. Just hand him over to my
charge, and he will be quite safe. Mothers and sisters," she continued,
addressing herself to Pao-yue's nurses and waiting maids, "invite uncle
Pao to follow me in here."

Dowager lady Chia had always been aware of the fact that Mrs. Ch'in was
a most trustworthy person, naturally courteous and scrupulous, and in
every action likewise so benign and gentle; indeed the most estimable
among the whole number of her great grandsons' wives, so that when she
saw her about to go and attend to Pao-yue, she felt that, for a
certainty, everything would be well.

Mrs. Ch'in, there and then, led away a company of attendants, and came
into the rooms inside the drawing room. Pao-yue, upon raising his head,
and catching sight of a picture hung on the upper wall, representing a
human figure, in perfect style, the subject of which was a portrait of
Yen Li, speedily felt his heart sink within him.

There was also a pair of scrolls, the text of which was:

  A thorough insight into worldly matters arises from knowledge;
  A clear perception of human nature emanates from literary lore.

On perusal of these two sentences, albeit the room was sumptuous and
beautifully laid out, he would on no account remain in it. "Let us go at
once," he hastened to observe, "let us go at once."

Mrs. Ch'in upon hearing his objections smiled. "If this," she said, "is
really not nice, where are you going? if you won't remain here, well
then come into my room."

Pao-yue nodded his head and gave a faint grin.

"Where do you find the propriety," a nurse thereupon interposed, "of an
uncle going to sleep in the room of a nephew's wife?"

"Ai ya!" exclaimed Mrs. Ch'in laughing, "I don't mind whether he gets
angry or not (at what I say); but how old can he be as to reverentially
shun all these things? Why my brother was with me here last month;
didn't you see him? he's, true enough, of the same age as uncle Pao, but
were the two of them to stand side by side, I suspect that he would be
much higher in stature."

"How is it," asked Pao-yue, "that I didn't see him? Bring him along and
let me have a look at him!"

"He's separated," they all ventured as they laughed, "by a distance of
twenty or thirty li, and how can he be brought along? but you'll see him
some day."

As they were talking, they reached the interior of Mrs. Ch'in's
apartments. As soon as they got in, a very faint puff of sweet fragrance
was wafted into their nostrils. Pao-yue readily felt his eyes itch and
his bones grow weak. "What a fine smell!" he exclaimed several
consecutive times.

Upon entering the apartments, and gazing at the partition wall, he saw a
picture the handiwork of T'ang Po-hu, consisting of Begonias drooping in
the spring time; on either side of which was one of a pair of scrolls,
written by Ch'in Tai-hsue, a Literary Chancellor of the Sung era, running
as follows:

  A gentle chill doth circumscribe the dreaming man, because the spring
      is cold.
  The fragrant whiff, which wafts itself into man's nose, is the perfume
      of wine!

On the table was a mirror, one which had been placed, in days of yore,
in the Mirror Palace of the Emperor Wu Tse-t'ien. On one side stood a
gold platter, in which Fei Yen, who lived in the Ch'ao state, used to
stand and dance. In this platter, was laid a quince, which An Lu-shan
had flung at the Empress T'ai Chen, inflicting a wound on her breast. In
the upper part of the room, stood a divan ornamented with gems, on which
the Emperor's daughter, Shou Ch'ang, was wont to sleep, in the Han Chang
Palace Hanging, were curtains embroidered with strings of pearls, by
T'ung Ch'ang, the Imperial Princess.

"It's nice in here, it's nice in here," exclaimed Pao-yue with a chuckle.

"This room of mine," observed Mrs. Ch'in smilingly, "is I think, good
enough for even spirits to live in!" and, as she uttered these words,
she with her own hands, opened a gauze coverlet, which had been washed
by Hsi Shih, and removed a bridal pillow, which had been held in the
arms of Hung Niang. Instantly, the nurses attended to Pao-yue, until he
had laid down comfortably; when they quietly dispersed, leaving only the
four waiting maids: Hsi Jen, Ch'iu Wen, Ch'ing Wen and She Yueh to keep
him company.

"Mind be careful, as you sit under the eaves," Mrs. Ch'in recommended
the young waiting maids, "that the cats do not start a fight!"

Pao-yue then closed his eyes, and, little by little, became drowsy, and
fell asleep.

It seemed to him just as if Mrs. Ch'in was walking ahead of him.
Forthwith, with listless and unsettled step, he followed Mrs. Ch'in to
some spot or other, where he saw carnation-like railings, jade-like
steps, verdant trees and limpid pools--a spot where actually no trace of
any human being could be met with, where of the shifting mundane dust
little had penetrated.

Pao-yue felt, in his dream, quite delighted. "This place," he mused, "is
pleasant, and I may as well spend my whole lifetime in here! though I
may have to lose my home, I'm quite ready for the sacrifice, for it's
far better being here than being flogged, day after day, by father,
mother, and teacher."

While he pondered in this erratic strain, he suddenly heard the voice of
some human being at the back of the rocks, giving vent to this song:

  Like scattering clouds doth fleet a vernal dream;
  The transient flowers pass like a running stream;
  Maidens and youths bear this, ye all, in mind;
  In useless grief what profit will ye find?

Pao-yue perceived that the voice was that of a girl. The song was barely
at an end, when he soon espied in the opposite direction, a beautiful
girl advancing with majestic and elastic step; a girl quite unlike any
ordinary mortal being. There is this poem, which gives an adequate
description of her:

  Lo she just quits the willow bank; and sudden now she issues from the
      flower-bedecked house;
  As onward alone she speeds, she startles the birds perched in the
      trees, by the pavilion; to which as she draws nigh, her shadow
      flits by the verandah!
  Her fairy clothes now flutter in the wind! a fragrant perfume like
      unto musk or olea is wafted in the air; Her apparel lotus-like is
      sudden wont to move; and the jingle of her ornaments strikes the
      ear.
  Her dimpled cheeks resemble, as they smile, a vernal peach; her
      kingfisher coiffure is like a cumulus of clouds; her lips part
      cherry-like; her pomegranate-like teeth conceal a fragrant
      breath.
  Her slender waist, so beauteous to look at, is like the skipping snow
      wafted by a gust of wind; the sheen of her pearls and kingfisher
      trinkets abounds with splendour, green as the feathers of a duck,
      and yellow as the plumes of a goose;
  Now she issues to view, and now is hidden among the flowers; beautiful
      she is when displeased, beautiful when in high spirits; with
      lissome step, she treads along the pond, as if she soars on wings
      or sways in the air.
  Her eyebrows are crescent moons, and knit under her smiles; she
      speaks, and yet she seems no word to utter; her lotus-like feet
      with ease pursue their course; she stops, and yet she seems still
      to be in motion; the charms of her figure all vie with ice in
      purity, and in splendour with precious gems; Lovely is her
      brilliant attire, so full of grandeur and refined grace.
  Loveable her countenance, as if moulded from some fragrant substance,
      or carved from white jade; elegant is her person, like a phoenix,
      dignified like a dragon soaring high.
  What is her chastity like? Like a white plum in spring with snow
      nestling in its broken skin; Her purity? Like autumn orchids
      bedecked with dewdrops.
  Her modesty? Like a fir-tree growing in a barren plain; Her
      comeliness? Like russet clouds reflected in a limpid pool.
  Her gracefulness? Like a dragon in motion wriggling in a stream;
      Her refinement? Like the rays of the moon shooting on to a cool
      river.
  Sure is she to put Hsi Tzu to shame! Bound to put Wang Ch'iang to the
      blush! What a remarkable person! Where was she born? and whence
      does she come?
  One thing is true that in Fairy-land there is no second like her! that
      in the Purple Courts of Heaven there is no one fit to be her peer!
  Forsooth, who can it be, so surpassingly beautiful!

Pao-yue, upon realising that she was a fairy, was much elated; and with
eagerness advanced and made a bow.

"My divine sister," he ventured, as he put on a smile. "I don't know
whence you come, and whither you are going. Nor have I any idea what
this place is, but I make bold to entreat that you would take my hand
and lead me on."

"My abode," replied the Fairy, "is above the Heavens of Divested
Animosities, and in the ocean of Discharged Sorrows. I'm the Fairy of
Monitory Vision, of the cave of Drooping Fragrance, in the mount of
Emitted Spring, within the confines of the Great Void. I preside over
the voluptuous affections and sensual debts among the mortal race, and
supervise in the dusty world, the envies of women and the lusts of man.
It's because I've recently come to hear that the retribution for
voluptuousness extends up to this place, that I betake myself here in
order to find suitable opportunities of disseminating mutual affections.
My encounter with you now is also not a matter of accident! This spot is
not distant from my confines. I have nothing much there besides a cup of
the tender buds of tea plucked by my own hands, and a pitcher of
luscious wine, fermented by me as well as several spritelike singing and
dancing maidens of great proficiency, and twelve ballads of spiritual
song, recently completed, on the Dream of the Red Chamber; but won't you
come along with me for a stroll?"

Pao-yue, at this proposal, felt elated to such an extraordinary degree
that he could skip from joy, and there and then discarding from his mind
all idea of where Mrs. Ch'in was, he readily followed the Fairy.

They reached some spot, where there was a stone tablet, put up in a
horizontal position, on which were visible the four large characters:
"The confines of the Great Void," on either side of which was one of a
pair of scrolls, with the two antithetical sentences:

  When falsehood stands for truth, truth likewise becomes false;
  When naught be made to aught, aught changes into naught!

Past the Portal stood the door of a Palace, and horizontally, above this
door, were the four large characters: "The Sea of Retribution, the
Heaven of Love." There were also a pair of scrolls, with the inscription
in large characters:

  Passion, alas! thick as the earth, and lofty as the skies, from ages
      past to the present hath held incessant sway;
  How pitiful your lot! ye lustful men and women envious, that your
      voluptuous debts should be so hard to pay!

Pao-yue, after perusal, communed with his own heart. "Is it really so!"
he thought, "but I wonder what implies the passion from old till now,
and what are the voluptuous debts! Henceforward, I must enlighten
myself!"

Pao-yue was bent upon this train of thoughts when he unwittingly
attracted several evil spirits into his heart, and with speedy step he
followed in the track of the fairy, and entered two rows of doors when
he perceived that the Lateral Halls were, on both sides, full of tablets
and scrolls, the number of which he could not in one moment ascertain.
He however discriminated in numerous places the inscriptions: The Board
of Lustful Love; the Board of contracted grudges; The Board of Matutinal
sobs; the Board of nocturnal tears; the Board of vernal affections; and
the Board of autumnal anguish.

After he had perused these inscriptions, he felt impelled to turn round
and address the Fairy. "May I venture to trouble my Fairy," he said, "to
take me along for a turn into the interior of each of these Boards? May
I be allowed, I wonder, to do so?"

"Inside each of these Boards," explained the Fairy, "are accumulated the
registers with the records of all women of the whole world; of those who
have passed away, as well as of those who have not as yet come into it,
and you, with your mortal eyes and human body, could not possibly be
allowed to know anything in anticipation."

But would Pao-yue, upon hearing these words, submit to this decree? He
went on to implore her permission again and again, until the Fairy
casting her eye upon the tablet of the board in front of her observed,
"Well, all right! you may go into this board and reap some transient
pleasure."

Pao-yue was indescribably joyous, and, as he raised his head, he
perceived that the text on the tablet consisted of the three characters:
the Board of Ill-fated lives; and that on each side was a scroll with
the inscription:

  Upon one's self are mainly brought regrets in spring and autumn gloom;
  A face, flowerlike may be and moonlike too; but beauty all for whom?

Upon perusal of the scroll Pao-yue was, at once, the more stirred with
admiration; and, as he crossed the door, and reached the interior, the
only things that struck his eye were about ten large presses, the whole
number of which were sealed with paper slips; on every one of these
slips, he perceived that there were phrases peculiar to each province.

Pao-yue was in his mind merely bent upon discerning, from the rest, the
slip referring to his own native village, when he espied, on the other
side, a slip with the large characters: "the Principal Record of the
Twelve Maidens of Chin Ling."

"What is the meaning," therefore inquired Pao-yue, "of the Principal
Record of the Twelve Maidens of Chin Ling?"

"As this is the record," explained the Fairy, "of the most excellent and
prominent girls in your honourable province, it is, for this reason,
called the Principal Record."

"I've often heard people say," observed Pao-yue, "that Chin Ling is of
vast extent; and how can there only be twelve maidens in it! why, at
present, in our own family alone, there are more or less several
hundreds of young girls!"

The Fairy gave a faint smile. "Through there be," she rejoined, "so
large a number of girls in your honourable province, those only of any
note have been selected and entered in this record. The two presses, on
the two sides, contain those who are second best; while, for all who
remain, as they are of the ordinary run, there are, consequently, no
registers to make any entry of them in."

Pao-yue upon looking at the press below, perceived the inscription:
"Secondary Record of the twelve girls of Chin Ling;" while again in
another press was inscribed: "Supplementary Secondary Record of the
Twelve girls of Chin Ling." Forthwith stretching out his hand, Pao-yue
opened first the doors of the press, containing the "supplementary
secondary Record," extracted a volume of the registers, and opened it.
When he came to examine it, he saw on the front page a representation of
something, which, though bearing no resemblance to a human being,
presented, at the same time, no similitude to scenery; consisting simply
of huge blotches made with ink. The whole paper was full of nothing else
but black clouds and turbid mists, after which appeared the traces of a
few characters, explaining that--

  A cloudless moon is rare forsooth to see,
  And pretty clouds so soon scatter and flee!
  Thy heart is deeper than the heavens are high,
  Thy frame consists of base ignominy!
  Thy looks and clever mind resentment will provoke,
  And thine untimely death vile slander will evoke!
  A loving noble youth in vain for love will yearn.

After reading these lines, Pao-yue looked below, where was pictured a
bouquet of fresh flowers and a bed covered with tattered matting. There
were also several distiches running as follows:

  Thy self-esteem for kindly gentleness is but a fancy vain!
  Thy charms that they can match the olea or orchid, but thoughts inane!
  While an actor will, envious lot! with fortune's smiles be born,
  A youth of noble birth will, strange to say, be luckless and forlorn.

Pao-yue perused these sentences, but could not unfold their meaning, so,
at once discarding this press, he went over and opened the door of the
press of the "Secondary Records" and took out a book, in which, on
examination, he found a representation of a twig of Olea fragrans.
Below, was a pond, the water of which was parched up and the mud dry,
the lotus flowers decayed, and even the roots dead. At the back were
these lines:

  The lotus root and flower but one fragrance will give;
  How deep alas! the wounds of thy life's span will be;
  What time a desolate tree in two places will live,
  Back to its native home the fragrant ghost will flee!

Pao-yue read these lines, but failed to understand what they meant. He
then went and fetched the "Principal Record," and set to looking it
over. He saw on the first page a picture of two rotten trees, while on
these trees was suspended a jade girdle. There was also a heap of snow,
and under this snow was a golden hair-pin. There were in addition these
four lines in verse:

  Bitter thy cup will be, e'en were the virtue thine to stop the loom,
  Thine though the gift the willow fluff to sing, pity who will thy
      doom?
  High in the trees doth hang the girdle of white jade,
  And lo! among the snow the golden pin is laid!

To Pao-yue the meaning was again, though he read the lines over, quite
unintelligible. He was, about to make inquiries, but he felt convinced
that the Fairy would be both to divulge the decrees of Heaven; and
though intent upon discarding the book, he could not however tear
himself away from it. Forthwith, therefore, he prosecuted a further
perusal of what came next, when he caught sight of a picture of a bow.
On this bow hung a citron. There was also this ode:

  Full twenty years right and wrong to expound will be thy fate!
  What place pomegranate blossoms come in bloom will face the Palace
      Gate!
  The third portion of spring, of the first spring in beauty short will
      fall!
  When tiger meets with hare thou wilt return to sleep perennial.

Further on, was also a sketch of two persons flying a kite; a broad
expanse of sea, and a large vessel; while in this vessel was a girl, who
screened her face bedewed with tears. These four lines were likewise
visible:

  Pure and bright will be thy gifts, thy purpose very high;
  But born thou wilt be late in life and luck be passed by;
  At the tomb feast thou wilt repine tearful along the stream,
  East winds may blow, but home miles off will be, even in dream.

After this followed a picture of several streaks of fleeting clouds, and
of a creek whose waters were exhausted, with the text:

  Riches and honours too what benefit are they?
  In swaddling clothes thou'lt be when parents pass away;
  The rays will slant, quick as the twinkle of an eye;
  The Hsiang stream will recede, the Ch'u clouds onward fly!

Then came a picture of a beautiful gem, which had fallen into the mire,
with the verse:

  Thine aim is chastity, but chaste thou wilt not be;
  Abstraction is thy faith, but void thou may'st not see;
  Thy precious, gemlike self will, pitiful to say,
  Into the mundane mire collapse at length some day.

A rough sketch followed of a savage wolf, in pursuit of a beautiful
girl, trying to pounce upon her as he wished to devour her. This was the
burden of the distich:

  Thy mate is like a savage wolf prowling among the hills;
  His wish once gratified a haughty spirit his heart fills!
  Though fair thy form like flowers or willows in the golden moon,
  Upon the yellow beam to hang will shortly be its doom.

Below, was an old temple, in the interior of which was a beautiful
person, just in the act of reading the religious manuals, as she sat all
alone; with this inscription:

  In light esteem thou hold'st the charms of the three springs for their
      short-liv'd fate;
  Thine attire of past years to lay aside thou chang'st, a Taoist dress
      to don;
  How sad, alas! of a reputed house and noble kindred the scion,
  Alone, behold! she sleeps under a glimmering light, an old idol for
      mate.

Next in order came a hill of ice, on which stood a hen-phoenix, while
under it was this motto:

  When time ends, sure coincidence, the phoenix doth alight;
  The talents of this human form all know and living see,
  For first to yield she kens, then to control, and third genial to be;
  But sad to say, things in Chin Ling are in more sorry plight.

This was succeeded by a representation of a desolate village, and a
dreary inn. A pretty girl sat in there, spinning thread. These were the
sentiments affixed below:

  When riches will have flown will honours then avail?
  When ruin breaks your home, e'en relatives will fail!
  But sudden through the aid extended to Dame Liu,
  A friend in need fortune will make to rise for you.

Following these verses, was drawn a pot of Orchids, by the side of
which, was a beautiful maiden in a phoenix-crown and cloudy mantle
(bridal dress); and to this picture was appended this device:

  What time spring wanes, then fades the bloom of peach as well as plum!
  Who ever can like a pot of the olea be winsome!
  With ice thy purity will vie, vain their envy will be!
  In vain a laughing-stock people will try to make of thee.

At the end of this poetical device, came the representation of a lofty
edifice, on which was a beauteous girl, suspending herself on a beam to
commit suicide; with this verse:

  Love high as heav'n, love ocean-wide, thy lovely form will don;
  What time love will encounter love, license must rise wanton;
  Why hold that all impiety in Jung doth find its spring,
  The source of trouble, verily, is centred most in Ning.

Pao-yue was still bent upon prosecuting his perusal, when the Fairy
perceiving that his intellect was eminent and bright, and his natural
talents quickwitted, and apprehending lest the decrees of heaven should
be divulged, hastily closed the Book of Record, and addressed herself to
Pao-yue. "Come along with me," she said smiling, "and see some wonderful
scenery. What's the need of staying here and beating this gourd of
ennui?"

In a dazed state, Pao-yue listlessly discarded the record, and again
followed in the footsteps of the Fairy. On their arrival at the back, he
saw carnation portieres, and embroidered curtains, ornamented pillars,
and carved eaves. But no words can adequately give an idea of the
vermilion apartments glistening with splendour, of the floors garnished
with gold, of the snow reflecting lustrous windows, of the palatial
mansions made of gems. He also saw fairyland flowers, beautiful and
fragrant, and extraordinary vegetation, full of perfume. The spot was
indeed elysian.

He again heard the Fairy observe with a smiling face: "Come out all of
you at once and greet the honoured guest!"

These words were scarcely completed, when he espied fairies walk out of
the mansion, all of whom were, with their dangling lotus sleeves, and
their fluttering feather habiliments, as comely as spring flowers, and
as winsome as the autumn moon. As soon as they caught sight of Pao-yue,
they all, with one voice, resentfully reproached the Monitory Vision
Fairy. "Ignorant as to who the honoured guest could be," they argued,
"we hastened to come out to offer our greetings simply because you,
elder sister, had told us that, on this day, and at this very time,
there would be sure to come on a visit, the spirit of the younger sister
of Chiang Chu. That's the reason why we've been waiting for ever so
long; and now why do you, in lieu of her, introduce this vile object to
contaminate the confines of pure and spotless maidens?"

As soon as Pao-yue heard these remarks, he was forthwith plunged in such
a state of consternation that he would have retired, but he found it
impossible to do so. In fact, he felt the consciousness of the foulness
and corruption of his own nature quite intolerable. The Monitory Vision
Fairy promptly took Pao-yue's hand in her own, and turning towards her
younger sisters, smiled and explained: "You, and all of you, are not
aware of the why and wherefore. To-day I did mean to have gone to the
Jung mansion to fetch Chiang Chu, but as I went by the Ning mansion, I
unexpectedly came across the ghosts of the two dukes of Jung and Ning,
who addressed me in this wise: 'Our family has, since the dynasty
established itself on the Throne, enjoyed merit and fame, which pervaded
many ages, and riches and honours transmitted from generation to
generation. One hundred years have already elapsed, but this good
fortune has now waned, and this propitious luck is exhausted; so much so
that they could not be retrieved! Our sons and grandsons may be many,
but there is no one among them who has the means to continue the family
estate, with the exception of our kindred grandson, Pao-yue alone, who,
though perverse in disposition and wayward by nature, is nevertheless
intelligent and quick-witted and qualified in a measure to give effect
to our hopes. But alas! the good fortune of our family is entirely
decayed, so that we fear there is no person to incite him to enter the
right way! Fortunately you worthy fairy come at an unexpected moment,
and we venture to trust that you will, above all things, warn him
against the foolish indulgence of inordinate desire, lascivious
affections and other such things, in the hope that he may, at your
instigation, be able to escape the snares of those girls who will allure
him with their blandishments, and to enter on the right track; and we
two brothers will be ever grateful.'

"On language such as this being addressed to me, my feelings of
commiseration naturally burst forth; and I brought him here, and bade
him, first of all, carefully peruse the records of the whole lives of
the maidens in his family, belonging to the three grades, the upper,
middle and lower, but as he has not yet fathomed the import, I have
consequently led him into this place to experience the vision of
drinking, eating, singing and licentious love, in the hope, there is no
saying, of his at length attaining that perception."

Having concluded these remarks, she led Pao-yue by the hand into the
apartment, where he felt a whiff of subtle fragrance, but what it was
that reached his nostrils he could not tell.

To Pao-yue's eager and incessant inquiries, the Fairy made reply with a
sardonic smile. "This perfume," she said, "is not to be found in the
world, and how could you discern what it is? This is made of the essence
of the first sprouts of rare herbs, growing on all hills of fame and
places of superior excellence, admixed with the oil of every species of
splendid shrubs in precious groves, and is called the marrow of
Conglomerated Fragrance."

At these words Pao-yue was, of course, full of no other feeling than
wonder.

The whole party advanced and took their seats, and a young maidservant
presented tea, which Pao-yue found of pure aroma, of excellent flavour
and of no ordinary kind. "What is the name of this tea?" he therefore
asked; upon which the Fairy explained. "This tea," she added,
"originates from the Hills of Emitted Spring and the Valley of Drooping
Fragrance, and is, besides, brewed in the night dew, found on spiritual
plants and divine leaves. The name of this tea is 'one thousand red in
one hole.'"

At these words Pao-yue nodded his head, and extolled its qualities.
Espying in the room lutes, with jasper mountings, and tripods, inlaid
with gems, antique paintings, and new poetical works, which were to be
seen everywhere, he felt more than ever in a high state of delight.
Below the windows, were also shreds of velvet sputtered about and a
toilet case stained with the traces of time and smudged with cosmetic;
while on the partition wall was likewise suspended a pair of scrolls,
with the inscription:

  A lonesome, small, ethereal, beauteous nook!
  What help is there, but Heaven's will to brook?

Pao-yue having completed his inspection felt full of admiration, and
proceeded to ascertain the names and surnames of the Fairies. One was
called the Fairy of Lustful Dreams; another "the High Ruler of
Propagated Passion;" the name of one was "the Golden Maiden of
Perpetuated Sorrow;" of another the "Intelligent Maiden of Transmitted
Hatred." (In fact,) the respective Taoist appellations were not of one
and the same kind.

In a short while, young maid-servants came in and laid the table, put
the chairs in their places, and spread out wines and eatables. There
were actually crystal tankards overflowing with luscious wines, and
amber glasses full to the brim with pearly strong liquors. But still
less need is there to give any further details about the sumptuousness
of the refreshments.

Pao-yue found it difficult, on account of the unusual purity of the
bouquet of the wine, to again restrain himself from making inquiries
about it.

"This wine," observed the Monitory Dream Fairy, "is made of the twigs of
hundreds of flowers, and the juice of ten thousands of trees, with the
addition of must composed of unicorn marrow, and yeast prepared with
phoenix milk. Hence the name of 'Ten thousand Beauties in one Cup' was
given to it."

Pao-yue sang its incessant praise, and, while he sipped his wine, twelve
dancing girls came forward, and requested to be told what songs they
were to sing.

"Take," suggested the Fairy, "the newly-composed Twelve Sections of the
Dream of the Red Chamber, and sing them."

The singing girls signified their obedience, and forthwith they lightly
clapped the castagnettes and gently thrummed the virginals. These were
the words which they were heard to sing:

  At the time of the opening of the heavens and the laying out of the
      earth chaos prevailed.

They had just sung this one line when the Fairy exclaimed: "This ballad
is unlike the ballads written in the dusty world whose purport is to
hand down remarkable events, in which the distinction of scholars,
girls, old men and women, and fools is essential, and in which are
furthermore introduced the lyrics of the Southern and Northern Palaces.
These fairy songs consist either of elegaic effusions on some person or
impressions of some occurrence or other, and are impromptu songs readily
set to the music of wind or string instruments, so that any one who is
not cognisant of their gist cannot appreciate the beauties contained in
them. So you are not likely, I fear, to understand this lyric with any
clearness; and unless you first peruse the text and then listen to the
ballad, you will, instead of pleasure, feel as if you were chewing wax
(devoid of any zest)."

After these remarks, she turned her head round, and directed a young
maid-servant to fetch the text of the Dream of the Red Chamber, which
she handed to Pao-yue, who took it over; and as he followed the words
with his eyes, with his ears he listened to the strains of this song:

Preface of the Bream of the Red Chamber.--When the Heavens were opened
and earth was laid out chaos prevailed! What was the germ of love? It
arises entirely from the strength of licentious love.

What day, by the will of heaven, I felt wounded at heart, and what time
I was at leisure, I made an attempt to disburden my sad heart; and with
this object in view I indited this Dream of the Bed Chamber, on the
subject of a disconsolate gold trinket and an unfortunate piece of jade.

Waste of a whole Lifetime. All maintain that the match between gold and
jade will be happy. All I can think of is the solemn oath contracted in
days gone by by the plant and stone! Vain will I gaze upon the snow,
Hsueeh, [Pao-ch'ai], pure as crystal and lustrous like a gem of the
eminent priest living among the hills! Never will I forget the noiseless
Fairy Grove, Lin [Tai-yue], beyond the confines of the mortal world!
Alas! now only have I come to believe that human happiness is
incomplete; and that a couple may be bound by the ties of wedlock for
life, but that after all their hearts are not easy to lull into
contentment.

Vain knitting of the brows. The one is a spirit flower of Fairyland; the
other is a beautiful jade without a blemish. Do you maintain that their
union will not be remarkable? Why how then is it that he has come to
meet her again in this existence? If the union will you say, be strange,
how is it then that their love affair will be but empty words? The one
in her loneliness will give way to useless sighs. The other in vain will
yearn and crave. The one will be like the reflection of the moon in
water; the other like a flower reflected in a mirror. Consider, how many
drops of tears can there be in the eyes? and how could they continue to
drop from autumn to winter and from spring to flow till summer time?

But to come to Pao-yue. After he had heard these ballads, so diffuse and
vague, he failed to see any point of beauty in them; but the plaintive
melody of the sound was nevertheless sufficient to drive away his spirit
and exhilarate his soul. Hence it was that he did not make any inquiries
about the arguments, and that he did not ask about the matter treated,
but simply making these ballads the means for the time being of
dispelling melancholy, he therefore went on with the perusal of what
came below.

Despicable Spirit of Death! You will be rejoicing that glory is at its
height when hateful death will come once again, and with eyes wide with
horror, you will discard all things, and dimly and softly the fragrant
spirit will waste and dissolve! You will yearn for native home, but
distant will be the way, and lofty the mountains. Hence it is that you
will betake yourself in search of father and mother, while they lie
under the influence of a dream, and hold discourse with them. "Your
child," you will say, "has already trodden the path of death! Oh my
parents, it behoves you to speedily retrace your steps and make good
your escape!"

Separated from Relatives. You will speed on a journey of three thousand
li at the mercy of wind and rain, and tear yourself from all your family
ties and your native home! Your fears will be lest anguish should do any
harm to your parents in their failing years! "Father and mother," you
will bid them, "do not think with any anxiety of your child. From ages
past poverty as well as success have both had a fixed destiny; and is it
likely that separation and reunion are not subject to predestination?
Though we may now be far apart in two different places, we must each of
us try and preserve good cheer. Your abject child has, it is true, gone
from home, but abstain from distressing yourselves on her account!"

Sorrow in the midst of Joy. While wrapped as yet in swaddling clothes,
father and mother, both alas! will depart, and dwell though you will in
that mass of gauze, who is there who will know how to spoil you with any
fond attention? Born you will be fortunately with ample moral courage,
and high-minded and boundless resources, for your parents will not have,
in the least, their child's secret feelings at heart! You will be like a
moon appearing to view when the rain holds up, shedding its rays upon
the Jade Hall; or a gentle breeze (wafting its breath upon it). Wedded
to a husband, fairy like fair and accomplished, you will enjoy a
happiness enduring as the earth and perennial as the Heavens! and you
will be the means of snapping asunder the bitter fate of your youth!
But, after all, the clouds will scatter in Kao T'ang and the waters of
the Hsiang river will get parched! This is the inevitable destiny of
dissolution and continuance which prevails in the mortal world, and what
need is there to indulge in useless grief?

Intolerable to the world. Your figure will be as winsome as an olea
fragrans; your talents as ample as those of a Fairy! You will by nature
be so haughty that of the whole human race few will be like you! You
will look upon a meat diet as one of dirt, and treat splendour as coarse
and loathsome! And yet you will not be aware that your high notions will
bring upon you the excessive hatred of man! You will be very eager in
your desire after chastity, but the human race will despise you! Alas,
you will wax old in that antique temple hall under a faint light, where
you will waste ungrateful for beauty, looks and freshness! But after all
you will still be worldly, corrupt and unmindful of your vows; just like
a spotless white jade you will be whose fate is to fall into the mire!
And what need will there be for the grandson of a prince or the son of a
duke to deplore that his will not be the good fortune (of winning your
affections)?

The Voluptuary. You will resemble a wolf in the mountains! a savage
beast devoid of all human feeling! Regardless in every way of the
obligations of days gone by, your sole pleasure will be in the
indulgence of haughtiness, extravagance, licentiousness and dissolute
habits! You will be inordinate in your conjugal affections, and look
down upon the beautiful charms of the child of a marquis, as if they
were cat-tail rush or willow; trampling upon the honourable daughter of
a ducal mansion, as if she were one of the common herd. Pitiful to say,
the fragrant spirit and beauteous ghost will in a year softly and gently
pass away!

The Perception that all things are transient like flowers. You will look
lightly upon the three springs and regard the blush of the peach and the
green of the willow as of no avail. You will beat out the fire of
splendour, and treat solitary retirement as genial! What is it that you
say about the delicate peaches in the heavens (marriage) being
excellent, and the petals of the almond in the clouds being plentiful
(children)? Let him who has after all seen one of them, (really a mortal
being) go safely through the autumn, (wade safely through old age),
behold the people in the white Poplar village groan and sigh; and the
spirits under the green maple whine and moan! Still more wide in expanse
than even the heavens is the dead vegetation which covers the graves!
The moral is this, that the burden of man is poverty one day and
affluence another; that bloom in spring, and decay in autumn, constitute
the doom of vegetable life! In the same way, this calamity of birth and
the visitation of death, who is able to escape? But I have heard it said
that there grows in the western quarter a tree called the P'o So
(Patient Bearing) which bears the fruit of Immortal life!

The bane of Intelligence. Yours will be the power to estimate, in a
thorough manner, the real motives of all things, as yours will be
intelligence of an excessive degree; but instead (of reaping any
benefit) you will cast the die of your own existence! The heart of your
previous life is already reduced to atoms, and when you shall have died,
your nature will have been intelligent to no purpose! Your home will be
in easy circumstances; your family will enjoy comforts; but your
connexions will, at length, fall a prey to death, and the inmates of
your family scatter, each one of you speeding in a different direction,
making room for others! In vain, you will have harassed your mind with
cankering thoughts for half a lifetime; for it will be just as if you
had gone through the confused mazes of a dream on the third watch!
Sudden a crash (will be heard) like the fall of a spacious palace, and a
dusky gloominess (will supervene) such as is caused by a lamp about to
spend itself! Alas! a spell of happiness will be suddenly (dispelled by)
adversity! Woe is man in the world! for his ultimate doom is difficult
to determine!

Leave behind a residue of happiness! Hand down an excess of happiness;
hand down an excess of happiness! Unexpectedly you will come across a
benefactor! Fortunate enough your mother, your own mother, will have
laid by a store of virtue and secret meritorious actions! My advice to
you, mankind, is to relieve the destitute and succour the distressed! Do
not resemble those who will harp after lucre and show themselves
unmindful of the ties of relationship: that wolflike maternal uncle of
yours and that impostor of a brother! True it is that addition and
subtraction, increase and decrease, (reward and punishment,) rest in the
hands of Heaven above!

Splendour at last. Loving affection in a mirror will be still more
ephemeral than fame in a dream. That fine splendour will fleet how soon!
Make no further allusion to embroidered curtain, to bridal coverlet; for
though you may come to wear on your head a pearl-laden coronet, and, on
your person, a jacket ornamented with phoenixes, yours will not
nevertheless be the means to atone for the short life (of your husband)!
Though the saying is that mankind should not have, in their old age, the
burden of poverty to bear, yet it is also essential that a store of
benevolent deeds should be laid up for the benefit of sons and
grandsons! (Your son) may come to be dignified in appearance and wear on
his head the official tassel, and on his chest may be suspended the gold
seal resplendent in lustre; he may be imposing in his majesty, and he
may rise high in status and emoluments, but the dark and dreary way
which leads to death is short! Are the generals and ministers who have
been from ages of old still in the flesh, forsooth? They exist only in a
futile name handed down to posterity to reverence!

Death ensues when things propitious reign! Upon the ornamented beam will
settle at the close of spring the fragrant dust! Your reckless
indulgence of licentious love and your naturally moonlike face will soon
be the source of the ruin of a family. The decadence of the family
estate will emanate entirely from Ching; while the wane of the family
affairs will be entirely attributable to the fault of Ning! Licentious
love will be the main reason of the long-standing grudge.

The flying birds each perch upon the trees! The family estates of those
in official positions will fade! The gold and silver of the rich and
honoured will be scattered! those who will have conferred benefit will,
even in death, find the means of escape! those devoid of human feelings
will reap manifest retribution! Those indebted for a life will make, in
due time, payment with their lives; those indebted for tears have
already (gone) to exhaust their tears! Mutual injuries will be revenged
in no light manner! Separation and reunion will both alike be determined
by predestination! You wish to know why your life will be short; look
into your previous existence! Verily, riches and honours, which will
come with old age, will likewise be a question of chance! Those who will
hold the world in light esteem will retire within the gate of
abstraction; while those who will be allured by enticement will have
forfeited their lives (The Chia family will fulfil its destiny) as
surely as birds take to the trees after they have exhausted all they had
to eat, and which as they drop down will pile up a hoary, vast and lofty
heap of dust, (leaving) indeed a void behind!

When the maidens had finished the ballads, they went on to sing the
"Supplementary Record;" but the Monitory Vision Fairy, perceiving the
total absence of any interest in Pao-yue, heaved a sigh. "You silly
brat!" she exclaimed. "What! haven't you, even now, attained
perception!"

"There's no need for you to go on singing," speedily observed Pao-yue, as
he interrupted the singing maidens; and feeling drowsy and dull, he
pleaded being under the effects of wine, and begged to be allowed to lie
down.

The Fairy then gave orders to clear away the remains of the feast, and
escorted Pao-yue to a suite of female apartments, where the splendour of
such objects as were laid out was a thing which he had not hitherto
seen. But what evoked in him wonder still more intense, was the sight,
at an early period, of a girl seated in the room, who, in the freshness
of her beauty and winsomeness of her charms, bore some resemblance to
Pao-ch'ai, while, in elegance and comeliness, on the other hand, to
Tai-yu.

While he was plunged in a state of perplexity, the Fairy suddenly
remarked: "All those female apartments and ladies' chambers in so many
wealthy and honourable families in the world are, without exception,
polluted by voluptuous opulent puppets and by all that bevy of
profligate girls. But still more despicable are those from old till now
numberless dissolute roues, one and all of whom maintain that libidinous
affections do not constitute lewdness; and who try, further, to prove
that licentious love is not tantamount to lewdness. But all these
arguments are mere apologies for their shortcomings, and a screen for
their pollutions; for if libidinous affection be lewdness, still more
does the perception of licentious love constitute lewdness. Hence it is
that the indulgence of sensuality and the gratification of licentious
affection originate entirely from a relish of lust, as well as from a
hankering after licentious love. Lo you, who are the object of my love,
are the most lewd being under the heavens from remote ages to the
present time!"

Pao-yue was quite dumbstruck by what he heard, and hastily smiling, he
said by way of reply: "My Fairy labours under a misapprehension. Simply
because of my reluctance to read my books my parents have, on repeated
occasions, extended to me injunction and reprimand, and would I have the
courage to go so far as to rashly plunge in lewd habits? Besides, I am
still young in years, and have no notion what is implied by lewdness!"

"Not so!" exclaimed the Fairy; "lewdness, although one thing in
principle is, as far as meaning goes, subject to different
constructions; as is exemplified by those in the world whose heart is
set upon lewdness. Some delight solely in faces and figures; others find
insatiable pleasure in singing and dancing; some in dalliance and
raillery; others in the incessant indulgence of their lusts; and these
regret that all the beautiful maidens under the heavens cannot minister
to their short-lived pleasure. These several kinds of persons are foul
objects steeped skin and all in lewdness. The lustful love, for
instance, which has sprung to life and taken root in your natural
affections, I and such as myself extend to it the character of an
abstract lewdness; but abstract lewdness can be grasped by the mind, but
cannot be transmitted by the mouth; can be fathomed by the spirit, but
cannot be divulged in words. As you now are imbued with this desire only
in the abstract, you are certainly well fit to be a trustworthy friend
in (Fairyland) inner apartments, but, on the path of the mortal world,
you will inevitably be misconstrued and defamed; every mouth will
ridicule you; every eye will look down upon you with contempt. After
meeting recently your worthy ancestors, the two Dukes of Ning and Jung,
who opened their hearts and made their wishes known to me with such
fervour, (but I will not have you solely on account of the splendour of
our inner apartments look down despisingly upon the path of the world),
I consequently led you along, my son, and inebriated you with luscious
wines, steeped you in spiritual tea, and admonished you with excellent
songs, bringing also here a young sister of mine, whose infant name is
Chien Mei, and her style K'o Ching, to be given to you as your wedded
wife. To-night, the time will be propitious and suitable for the
immediate consummation of the union, with the express object of letting
you have a certain insight into the fact that if the condition of the
abode of spirits within the confines of Fairyland be still so
(imperfect), how much the more so should be the nature of the affections
which prevail in the dusty world; with the intent that from this time
forth you should positively break loose from bondage, perceive and amend
your former disposition, devote your attention to the works of Confucius
and Mencius, and set your steady purpose upon the principles of
morality."

Having ended these remarks, she initiated him into the mysteries of
licentious love, and, pushing Pao-yue into the room, she closed the door,
and took her departure all alone. Pao-yue in a dazed state complied with
the admonitions given him by the Fairy, and the natural result was, of
course, a violent flirtation, the circumstances of which it would be
impossible to recount.

When the next day came, he was by that time so attached to her by ties
of tender love and their conversation was so gentle and full of charm
that he could not brook to part from K'o Ching. Hand-in-hand, the two of
them therefore, went out for a stroll, when they unexpectedly reached a
place, where nothing else met their gaze than thorns and brambles, which
covered the ground, and a wolf and a tiger walking side by side. Before
them stretched the course of a black stream, which obstructed their
progress; and over this stream there was, what is more, no bridge to
enable one to cross it.

While they were exercising their minds with perplexity, they suddenly
espied the Fairy coming from the back in pursuit of them. "Desist at
once," she exclaimed, "from making any advance into the stream; it is
urgent that you should, with all speed, turn your faces round!"

Pao-yue lost no time in standing still. "What is this place?" he
inquired.

"This is the Ford of Enticement," explained the Fairy. "Its depth is ten
thousand chang; its breadth is a thousand li; in its stream there are no
boats or paddles by means of which to effect a passage. There is simply
a raft, of which Mu Chu-shih directs the rudder, and which Hui Shih chen
punts with the poles. They receive no compensation in the shape of gold
or silver, but when they come across any one whose destiny it is to
cross, they ferry him over. You now have by accident strolled as far as
here, and had you fallen into the stream you would have rendered quite
useless the advice and admonition which I previously gave you."

These words were scarcely concluded, when suddenly was heard from the
midst of the Ford of Enticement, a sound like unto a peal of thunder,
whereupon a whole crowd of gobblins and sea-urchins laid hands upon
Pao-yue and dragged him down.

This so filled Pao-yue with consternation that he fell into a
perspiration as profuse as rain, and he simultaneously broke forth and
shouted, "Rescue me, K'o Ching!"

These cries so terrified Hsi Jen and the other waiting-maids, that they
rushed forward, and taking Pao-yue in their arms, "Don't be afraid,
Pao-yue," they said, "we are here."

But we must observe that Mrs. Ch'in was just inside the apartment in the
act of recommending the young waiting-maids to be mindful that the cats
and dogs did not start a fight, when she unawares heard Pao-yue, in his
dream, call her by her infant name. In a melancholy mood she therefore
communed within herself, "As far as my infant name goes, there is, in
this establishment, no one who has any idea what it is, and how is it
that he has come to know it, and that he utters it in his dream?" And
she was at this period unable to fathom the reason. But, reader, listen
to the explanations given in the chapter which follows.




CHAPTER VI.

  Chia Pao-yue reaps his first experience in licentious love.
  Old Goody Liu pays a visit to the Jung Kuo Mansion.


Mrs. Ch'in, to resume our narrative, upon hearing Pao-yue call her in his
dream by her infant name, was at heart very exercised, but she did not
however feel at liberty to make any minute inquiry.

Pao-yue was, at this time, in such a dazed state, as if he had lost
something, and the servants promptly gave him a decoction of lungngan.
After he had taken a few sips, he forthwith rose and tidied his clothes.

Hsi Jen put out her hand to fasten the band of his garment, and as soon
as she did so, and it came in contact with his person, it felt so icy
cold to the touch, covered as it was all over with perspiration, that
she speedily withdrew her hand in utter surprise.

"What's the matter with you?" she exclaimed.

A blush suffused Pao-yue's face, and he took Hsi Jen's hand in a tight
grip. Hsi Jen was a girl with all her wits about her; she was besides a
couple of years older than Pao-yue and had recently come to know
something of the world, so that at the sight of his state, she to a
great extent readily accounted for the reason in her heart. From modest
shame, she unconsciously became purple in the face, and not venturing to
ask another question she continued adjusting his clothes. This task
accomplished, she followed him over to old lady Chia's apartments; and
after a hurry-scurry meal, they came back to this side, and Hsi Jen
availed herself of the absence of the nurses and waiting-maids to hand
Pao-yue another garment to change.

"Please, dear Hsi Jen, don't tell any one," entreated Pao-yue, with
concealed shame.

"What did you dream of?" inquired Hsi Jen, smiling, as she tried to
stifle her blushes, "and whence comes all this perspiration?"

"It's a long story," said Pao-yue, "which only a few words will not
suffice to explain."

He accordingly recounted minutely, for her benefit, the subject of his
dream. When he came to where the Fairy had explained to him the
mysteries of love, Hsi Jen was overpowered with modesty and covered her
face with her hands; and as she bent down, she gave way to a fit of
laughter. Pao-yue had always been fond of Hsi Jen, on account of her
gentleness, pretty looks and graceful and elegant manner, and he
forthwith expounded to her all the mysteries he had been taught by the
Fairy.

Hsi Jen was, of course, well aware that dowager lady Chia had given her
over to Pao-yue, so that her present behaviour was likewise no
transgression. And subsequently she secretly attempted with Pao-yue a
violent flirtation, and lucky enough no one broke in upon them during
their tete-a-tete. From this date, Pao-yue treated Hsi Jen with special
regard, far more than he showed to the other girls, while Hsi Jen
herself was still more demonstrative in her attentions to Pao-yue. But
for a time we will make no further remark about them.

As regards the household of the Jung mansion, the inmates may, on adding
up the total number, not have been found many; yet, counting the high as
well as the low, there were three hundred persons and more. Their
affairs may not have been very numerous, still there were, every day,
ten and twenty matters to settle; in fact, the household resembled, in
every way, ravelled hemp, devoid even of a clue-end, which could be used
as an introduction.

Just as we were considering what matter and what person it would be best
to begin writing of, by a lucky coincidence suddenly from a distance of
a thousand li, a person small and insignificant as a grain of mustard
seed happened, on account of her distant relationship with the Jung
family, to come on this very day to the Jung mansion on a visit. We
shall therefore readily commence by speaking of this family, as it after
all affords an excellent clue for a beginning.

The surname of this mean and humble family was in point of fact Wang.
They were natives of this district. Their ancestor had filled a minor
office in the capital, and had, in years gone by, been acquainted with
lady Feng's grandfather, that is madame Wang's father. Being covetous of
the influence and affluence of the Wang family, he consequently joined
ancestors with them, and was recognised by them as a nephew.

At that time, there were only madame Wang's eldest brother, that is lady
Feng's father, and madame Wang herself, who knew anything of these
distant relations, from the fact of having followed their parents to the
capital. The rest of the family had one and all no idea about them.

This ancestor had, at this date, been dead long ago, leaving only one
son called Wang Ch'eng. As the family estate was in a state of ruin, he
once more moved outside the city walls and settled down in his native
village. Wang Ch'eng also died soon after his father, leaving a son,
known in his infancy as Kou Erh, who married a Miss Liu, by whom he had
a son called by the infant name of Pan Erh, as well as a daughter,
Ch'ing Erh. His family consisted of four, and he earned a living from
farming.

As Kou Erh was always busy with something or other during the day and
his wife, dame Liu, on the other hand, drew the water, pounded the rice
and attended to all the other domestic concerns, the brother and sister,
Ch'ing Erh and Pan Erh, the two of them, had no one to look after them.
(Hence it was that) Kou Erh brought over his mother-in-law, old goody
Liu, to live with them.

This goody Liu was an old widow, with a good deal of experience. She had
besides no son round her knees, so that she was dependent for her
maintenance on a couple of acres of poor land, with the result that when
her son-in-law received her in his home, she naturally was ever willing
to exert heart and mind to help her daughter and her son-in-law to earn
their living.

This year, the autumn had come to an end, winter had commenced, and the
weather had begun to be quite cold. No provision had been made in the
household for the winter months, and Kou Erh was, inevitably,
exceedingly exercised in his heart. Having had several cups of wine to
dispel his distress, he sat at home and tried to seize upon every trifle
to give vent to his displeasure. His wife had not the courage to force
herself in his way, and hence goody Liu it was who encouraged him, as
she could not bear to see the state of the domestic affairs.

"Don't pull me up for talking too much," she said; "but who of us
country people isn't honest and open-hearted? As the size of the bowl we
hold, so is the quantity of the rice we eat. In your young days, you
were dependent on the support of your old father, so that eating and
drinking became quite a habit with you; that's how, at the present time,
your resources are quite uncertain; when you had money, you looked
ahead, and didn't mind behind; and now that you have no money, you
blindly fly into huffs. A fine fellow and a capital hero you have made!
Living though we now be away from the capital, we are after all at the
feet of the Emperor; this city of Ch'ang Ngan is strewn all over with
money, but the pity is that there's no one able to go and fetch it away;
and it's no use your staying at home and kicking your feet about."

"All you old lady know," rejoined Kou Erh, after he had heard what she
had to say, "is to sit on the couch and talk trash! Is it likely you
would have me go and play the robber?"

"Who tells you to become a robber?" asked goody Liu. "But it would be
well, after all, that we should put our heads together and devise some
means; for otherwise, is the money, pray, able of itself to run into our
house?"

"Had there been a way," observed Kou Erh, smiling sarcastically, "would
I have waited up to this moment? I have besides no revenue collectors as
relatives, or friends in official positions; and what way could we
devise? 'But even had I any, they wouldn't be likely, I fear, to pay any
heed to such as ourselves!"

"That, too, doesn't follow," remarked goody Liu; "the planning of
affairs rests with man, but the accomplishment of them rests with
Heaven. After we have laid our plans, we may, who can say, by relying on
the sustenance of the gods, find some favourable occasion. Leave it to
me, I'll try and devise some lucky chance for you people! In years gone
by, you joined ancestors with the Wang family of Chin Ling, and twenty
years back, they treated you with consideration; but of late, you've
been so high and mighty, and not condescended to go and bow to them,
that an estrangement has arisen. I remember how in years gone by, I and
my daughter paid them a visit. The second daughter of the family was
really so pleasant and knew so well how to treat people with kindness,
and without in fact any high airs! She's at present the wife of Mr.
Chia, the second son of the Jung Kuo mansion; and I hear people say that
now that she's advanced in years, she's still more considerate to the
poor, regardful of the old, and very fond of preparing vegetable food
for the bonzes and performing charitable deeds. The head of the Wang
mansion has, it is true, been raised to some office on the frontier, but
I hope that this lady Secunda will anyhow notice us. How is it then that
you don't find your way as far as there; for she may possibly remember
old times, and some good may, no one can say, come of it? I only wish
that she would display some of her kind-heartedness, and pluck one hair
from her person which would be, yea thicker than our waist."

"What you suggest, mother, is quite correct," interposed Mrs. Liu, Kou
Erh's wife, who stood by and took up the conversation, "but with such
mouth and phiz as yours and mine, how could we present ourselves before
her door? Why I fear that the man at her gate won't also like to go and
announce us! and we'd better not go and have our mouths slapped in
public!"

Kou Erh, who would have thought it, prized highly both affluence and
fame, so that when he heard these remarks, he forthwith began to feel at
heart a little more at ease. When he furthermore heard what his wife had
to say, he at once caught up the word as he smiled.

"Old mother," he rejoined; "since that be your idea, and what's more,
you have in days gone by seen this lady on one occasion, why shouldn't
you, old lady, start to-morrow on a visit to her and first ascertain how
the wind blows!"

"Ai Ya!" exclaimed old Goody, "It may very well be said that the
marquis' door is like the wide ocean! what sort of thing am I? why the
servants of that family wouldn't even recognise me! even were I to go,
it would be on a wild goose chase."

"No matter about that," observed Kou Erh; "I'll tell you a good way; you
just take along with you, your grandson, little Pan Erh, and go first
and call upon Chou Jui, who is attached to that household; and when once
you've seen him, there will be some little chance. This Chou Jui, at one
time, was connected with my father in some affair or other, and we were
on excellent terms with him."

"That I too know," replied goody Liu, "but the thing is that you've had
no dealings with him for so long, that who knows how he's disposed
towards us now? this would be hard to say. Besides, you're a man, and
with a mouth and phiz like that of yours, you couldn't, on any account,
go on this errand. My daughter is a young woman, and she too couldn't
very well go and expose herself to public gaze. But by my sacrificing
this old face of mine, and by going and knocking it (against the wall)
there may, after all, be some benefit and all of us might reap profit."

That very same evening, they laid their plans, and the next morning
before the break of day, old goody Liu speedily got up, and having
performed her toilette, she gave a few useful hints to Pan Erh; who,
being a child of five or six years of age, was, when he heard that he
was to be taken into the city, at once so delighted that there was
nothing that he would not agree to.

Without further delay, goody Liu led off Pan Erh, and entered the city,
and reaching the Ning Jung street, she came to the main entrance of the
Jung mansion, where, next to the marble lions, were to be seen a crowd
of chairs and horses. Goody Liu could not however muster the courage to
go by, but having shaken her clothes, and said a few more seasonable
words to Pan Erh, she subsequently squatted in front of the side gate,
whence she could see a number of servants, swelling out their chests,
pushing out their stomachs, gesticulating with their hands and kicking
their feet about, while they were seated at the main entrance chattering
about one thing and another.

Goody Liu felt constrained to edge herself forward. "Gentlemen," she
ventured, "may happiness betide you!"

The whole company of servants scrutinised her for a time. "Where do you
come from?" they at length inquired.

"I've come to look up Mr. Chou, an attendant of my lady's," remarked
goody Liu, as she forced a smile; "which of you, gentlemen, shall I
trouble to do me the favour of asking him to come out?"

The servants, after hearing what she had to say, paid, the whole number
of them, no heed to her; and it was after the lapse of a considerable
time that they suggested: "Go and wait at a distance, at the foot of
that wall; and in a short while, the visitors, who are in their house,
will be coming out."

Among the party of attendants was an old man, who interposed,

"Don't baffle her object," he expostulated; "why make a fool of her?"
and turning to goody Liu: "This Mr. Chou," he said, "is gone south: his
house is at the back row; his wife is anyhow at home; so go round this
way, until you reach the door, at the back street, where, if you will
ask about her, you will be on the right track."

Goody Liu, having expressed her thanks, forthwith went, leading Pan Erh
by the hand, round to the back door, where she saw several pedlars
resting their burdens. There were also those who sold things to eat, and
those who sold playthings and toys; and besides these, twenty or thirty
boys bawled and shouted, making quite a noise.

Goody Liu readily caught hold of one of them. "I'd like to ask you just
a word, my young friend," she observed; "there's a Mrs. Chou here; is
she at home?"

"Which Mrs. Chou?" inquired the boy; "we here have three Mrs. Chous; and
there are also two young married ladies of the name of Chou. What are
the duties of the one you want, I wonder ?"

"She's a waiting-woman of my lady," replied goody Liu.

"It's easy to get at her," added the boy; "just come along with me."

Leading the way for goody Liu into the backyard, they reached the wall
of a court, when he pointed and said, "This is her house.--Mother Chou!"
he went on to shout with alacrity; "there's an old lady who wants to see
you."

Chou Jui's wife was at home, and with all haste she came out to greet
her visitor. "Who is it?" she asked.

Goody Liu advanced up to her. "How are you," she inquired, "Mrs. Chou?"

Mrs. Chou looked at her for some time before she at length smiled and
replied, "Old goody Liu, are you well? How many years is it since we've
seen each other; tell me, for I forget just now; but please come in and
sit."

"You're a lady of rank," answered goody Liu smiling, as she walked
along, "and do forget many things. How could you remember such as
ourselves?"

With these words still in her mouth, they had entered the house,
whereupon Mrs. Chou ordered a hired waiting-maid to pour the tea. While
they were having their tea she remarked, "How Pan Erh has managed to
grow!" and then went on to make inquiries on the subject of various
matters, which had occurred after their separation.

"To-day," she also asked of goody Liu, "were you simply passing by? or
did you come with any express object?"

"I've come, the fact is, with an object!" promptly replied goody Liu;
"(first of all) to see you, my dear sister-in-law; and, in the second
place also, to inquire after my lady's health. If you could introduce me
to see her for a while, it would be better; but if you can't, I must
readily borrow your good offices, my sister-in-law, to convey my
message."

Mr. Chou Jui's wife, after listening to these words, at once became to a
great extent aware of the object of her visit. Her husband had, however,
in years gone by in his attempt to purchase some land, obtained
considerably the support of Kou Erh, so that when she, on this occasion,
saw goody Liu in such a dilemma, she could not make up her mind to
refuse her wish. Being in the second place keen upon making a display of
her own respectability, she therefore said smilingly:

"Old goody Liu, pray compose your mind! You've come from far off with a
pure heart and honest purpose, and how can I ever not show you the way
how to see this living Buddha? Properly speaking, when people come and
guests arrive, and verbal messages have to be given, these matters are
not any of my business, as we all here have each one kind of duties to
carry out. My husband has the special charge of the rents of land coming
in, during the two seasons of spring and autumn, and when at leisure, he
takes the young gentlemen out of doors, and then his business is done.
As for myself, I have to accompany my lady and young married ladies on
anything connected with out-of-doors; but as you are a relative of my
lady and have besides treated me as a high person and come to me for
help, I'll, after all, break this custom and deliver your message.
There's only one thing, however, and which you, old lady, don't know. We
here are not what we were five years before. My lady now doesn't much
worry herself about anything; and it's entirely lady Secunda who looks
after the menage. But who do you presume is this lady Secunda? She's the
niece of my lady, and the daughter of my master, the eldest maternal
uncle of by-gone days. Her infant name was Feng Ko."

"Is it really she?" inquired promptly goody Liu, after this explanation.
"Isn't it strange? what I said about her years back has come out quite
correct; but from all you say, shall I to-day be able to see her?"

"That goes without saying," replied Chou Jui's wife; "when any visitors
come now-a-days, it's always lady Feng who does the honours and
entertains them, and it's better to-day that you should see her for a
while, for then you will not have walked all this way to no purpose."

"O mi to fu!" exclaimed old goody Liu; "I leave it entirely to your
convenience, sister-in-law."

"What's that you're saying?" observed Chou Jui's wife. "The proverb
says: 'Our convenience is the convenience of others.' All I have to do
is to just utter one word, and what trouble will that be to me."

Saying this, she bade the young waiting maid go to the side pavilion,
and quietly ascertain whether, in her old ladyship's apartment, table
had been laid.

The young waiting-maid went on this errand, and during this while, the
two of them continued a conversation on certain irrelevant matters.

"This lady Feng," observed goody Liu, "can this year be no older than
twenty, and yet so talented as to manage such a household as this! the
like of her is not easy to find!"

"Hai! my dear old goody," said Chou Jui's wife, after listening to her,
"it's not easy to explain; but this lady Feng, though young in years, is
nevertheless, in the management of affairs, superior to any man. She has
now excelled the others and developed the very features of a beautiful
young woman. To say the least, she has ten thousand eyes in her heart,
and were they willing to wager their mouths, why ten men gifted with
eloquence couldn't even outdo her! But by and bye, when you've seen her,
you'll know all about her! There's only this thing, she can't help being
rather too severe in her treatment of those below her."

While yet she spake, the young waiting-maid returned. "In her venerable
lady's apartment," she reported, "repast has been spread, and already
finished; lady Secunda is in madame Wang's chamber."

As soon as Chou Jui's wife heard this news, she speedily got up and
pressed goody Liu to be off at once. "This is," she urged, "just the
hour for her meal, and as she is free we had better first go and wait
for her; for were we to be even one step too late, a crowd of servants
will come with their reports, and it will then be difficult to speak to
her; and after her siesta, she'll have still less time to herself."

As she passed these remarks, they all descended the couch together.
Goody Liu adjusted their dresses, and, having impressed a few more words
of advice on Pan Erh, they followed Chou Jui's wife through winding
passages to Chia Lien's house. They came in the first instance into the
side pavilion, where Chou Jui's wife placed old goody Liu to wait a
little, while she herself went ahead, past the screen-wall and into the
entrance of the court.

Hearing that lady Feng had not come out, she went in search of an
elderly waiting-maid of lady Feng, P'ing Erh by name, who enjoyed her
confidence, to whom Chou Jui's wife first recounted from beginning to
end the history of old goody Liu.

"She has come to-day," she went on to explain, "from a distance to pay
her obeisance. In days gone by, our lady used often to meet her, so
that, on this occasion, she can't but receive her; and this is why I've
brought her in! I'll wait here for lady Feng to come down, and explain
everything to her; and I trust she'll not call me to task for officious
rudeness."

P'ing Erh, after hearing what she had to say, speedily devised the plan
of asking them to walk in, and to sit there pending (lady Feng's
arrival), when all would be right.

Chou Jui's wife thereupon went out and led them in. When they ascended
the steps of the main apartment, a young waiting-maid raised a red
woollen portiere, and as soon as they entered the hall, they smelt a
whiff of perfume as it came wafted into their faces: what the scent was
they could not discriminate; but their persons felt as if they were
among the clouds.

The articles of furniture and ornaments in the whole room were all so
brilliant to the sight, and so vying in splendour that they made the
head to swim and the eyes to blink, and old goody Liu did nothing else
the while than nod her head, smack her lips and invoke Buddha. Forthwith
she was led to the eastern side into the suite of apartments, where was
the bedroom of Chia Lien's eldest daughter. P'ing Erh, who was standing
by the edge of the stove-couch, cast a couple of glances at old goody
Liu, and felt constrained to inquire how she was, and to press her to
have a seat.

Goody Liu, noticing that P'ing Erh was entirely robed in silks, that she
had gold pins fixed in her hair, and silver ornaments in her coiffure,
and that her countenance resembled a flower or the moon (in beauty),
readily imagined her to be lady Feng, and was about to address her as my
lady; but when she heard Mrs. Chou speak to her as Miss P'ing, and P'ing
Erh promptly address Chou Jui's wife as Mrs. Chou, she eventually became
aware that she could be no more than a waiting-maid of a certain
respectability.

She at once pressed old goody Liu and Pan Erh to take a seat on the
stove-couch. P'ing Erh and Chou Jui's wife sat face to face, on the
edges of the couch. The waiting-maids brought the tea. After they had
partaken of it, old goody Liu could hear nothing but a "lo tang, lo
tang" noise, resembling very much the sound of a bolting frame winnowing
flour, and she could not resist looking now to the East, and now to the
West. Suddenly in the great Hall, she espied, suspended on a pillar, a
box at the bottom of which hung something like the weight of a balance,
which incessantly wagged to and fro.

"What can this thing be?" communed goody Liu in her heart, "What can be
its use?" While she was aghast, she unexpectedly heard a sound of "tang"
like the sound of a golden bell or copper cymbal, which gave her quite a
start. In a twinkle of the eyes followed eight or nine consecutive
strokes; and she was bent upon inquiring what it was, when she caught
sight of several waiting-maids enter in a confused crowd. "Our lady has
come down!" they announced.

P'ing Erh, together with Chou Jui's wife, rose with all haste. "Old
goody Liu," they urged, "do sit down and wait till it's time, when we'll
come and ask you in."

Saying this, they went out to meet lady Feng.

Old goody Liu, with suppressed voice and ear intent, waited in perfect
silence. She heard at a distance the voices of some people laughing,
whereupon about ten or twenty women, with rustling clothes and
petticoats, made their entrance, one by one, into the hall, and thence
into the room on the other quarter. She also detected two or three
women, with red-lacquered boxes in their hands, come over on this part
and remain in waiting.

"Get the repast ready!" she heard some one from the offside say.

The servants gradually dispersed and went out; and there only remained
in attendance a few of them to bring in the courses. For a long time,
not so much as the caw of a crow could be heard, when she unexpectedly
perceived two servants carry in a couch-table, and lay it on this side
of the divan. Upon this table were placed bowls and plates, in proper
order replete, as usual, with fish and meats; but of these only a few
kinds were slightly touched.

As soon as Pan Erh perceived (all these delicacies), he set up such a
noise, and would have some meat to eat, but goody Liu administered to
him such a slap, that he had to keep away.

Suddenly, she saw Mrs. Chou approach, full of smiles, and as she waved
her hand, she called her. Goody Liu understood her meaning, and at once
pulling Pan Erh off the couch, she proceeded to the centre of the Hall;
and after Mrs. Chou had whispered to her again for a while, they came at
length with slow step into the room on this side, where they saw on the
outside of the door, suspended by brass hooks, a deep red flowered soft
portiere. Below the window, on the southern side, was a stove-couch, and
on this couch was spread a crimson carpet. Leaning against the wooden
partition wall, on the east side, stood a chain-embroidered back-cushion
and a reclining pillow. There was also spread a large watered satin
sitting cushion with a gold embroidered centre, and on the side stood
cuspidores made of silver.

Lady Feng, when at home, usually wore on her head a front-piece of dark
martin a la Chao Chuen, surrounded with tassels of strung pearls. She had
on a robe of peach-red flowered satin, a short pelisse of slate-blue
stiff silk, lined with squirrel, and a jupe of deep red foreign crepe,
lined with ermine. Resplendent with pearl-powder and with cosmetics, she
sat in there, stately and majestic, with a small brass poker in her
hands, with which she was stirring the ashes of the hand-stove. P'ing
Erh stood by the side of the couch, holding a very small lacquered
tea-tray. In this tray was a small tea-cup with a cover. Lady Feng
neither took any tea, nor did she raise her head, but was intent upon
stirring the ashes of the hand-stove.

"How is it you haven't yet asked her to come in?" she slowly inquired;
and as she spake, she turned herself round and was about to ask for some
tea, when she perceived that Mrs. Chou had already introduced the two
persons and that they were standing in front of her.

She forthwith pretended to rise, but did not actually get up, and with a
face radiant with smiles, she ascertained about their health, after
which she went in to chide Chou Jui's wife. "Why didn't you tell me they
had come before?" she said.

Old goody Liu was already by this time prostrated on the ground, and
after making several obeisances, "How are you, my lady?" she inquired.

"Dear Mrs. Chou," lady Feng immediately observed, "do pull her up, and
don't let her prostrate herself! I'm yet young in years and don't know
her much; what's more, I've no idea what's the degree of the
relationship between us, and I daren't speak directly to her."

"This is the old lady about whom I spoke a short while back," speedily
explained Mrs. Chou.

Lady Feng nodded her head assentingly.

By this time old goody Liu had taken a seat on the edge of the
stove-couch. As for Pan Erh, he had gone further, and taken refuge
behind her back; and though she tried, by every means, to coax him to
come forward and make a bow, he would not, for the life of him, consent.

"Relatives though we be," remarked lady Feng, as she smiled, "we haven't
seen much of each other, so that our relations have been quite distant.
But those who know how matters stand will assert that you all despise
us, and won't often come to look us up; while those mean people, who
don't know the truth, will imagine that we have no eyes to look at any
one."

Old goody Liu promptly invoked Buddha. "We are at home in great
straits," she pleaded, "and that's why it wasn't easy for us to manage
to get away and come! Even supposing we had come as far as this, had we
not given your ladyship a slap on the mouth, those gentlemen would also,
in point of fact, have looked down upon us as a mean lot."

"Why, language such as this," exclaimed lady Feng smilingly, "cannot
help making one's heart full of displeasure! We simply rely upon the
reputation of our grandfather to maintain the status of a penniless
official; that's all! Why, in whose household is there anything
substantial? we are merely the denuded skeleton of what we were in days
of old, and no more! As the proverb has it: The Emperor himself has
three families of poverty-stricken relatives; and how much more such as
you and I?"

Having passed these remarks, she inquired of Mrs. Chou, "Have you let
madame know, yes or no?"

"We are now waiting," replied Mrs. Chou, "for my lady's orders."

"Go and have a look," said lady Feng; "but, should there be any one
there, or should she be busy, then don't make any mention; but wait
until she's free, when you can tell her about it and see what she says."

Chou Jui's wife, having expressed her compliance, went off on this
errand. During her absence, lady Feng gave orders to some servants to
take a few fruits and hand them to Pan Erh to eat; and she was inquiring
about one thing and another, when there came a large number of married
women, who had the direction of affairs in the household, to make their
several reports.

P'ing Erh announced their arrival to lady Feng, who said: "I'm now
engaged in entertaining some guests, so let them come back again in the
evening; but should there be anything pressing then bring it in and I'll
settle it at once."

P'ing Erh left the room, but she returned in a short while. "I've asked
them," she observed, "but as there's nothing of any urgency, I told them
to disperse." Lady Feng nodded her head in token of approval, when she
perceived Chou Jui's wife come back. "Our lady," she reported, as she
addressed lady Feng, "says that she has no leisure to-day, that if you,
lady Secunda, will entertain them, it will come to the same thing; that
she's much obliged for their kind attention in going to the trouble of
coming; that if they have come simply on a stroll, then well and good,
but that if they have aught to say, they should tell you, lady Secunda,
which will be tantamount to their telling her."

"I've nothing to say," interposed old goody Liu. "I simply come to see
our elder and our younger lady, which is a duty on my part, a relative
as I am."

"Well, if there's nothing particular that you've got to say, all right,"
Mrs. Chou forthwith added, "but if you do have anything, don't hesitate
telling lady Secunda, and it will be just as if you had told our lady."

As she uttered these words, she winked at goody Liu. Goody Liu
understood what she meant, but before she could give vent to a word, her
face got scarlet, and though she would have liked not to make any
mention of the object of her visit, she felt constrained to suppress her
shame and to speak out.

"Properly speaking," she observed, "this being the first time I see you,
my lady, I shouldn't mention what I've to say, but as I come here from
far off to seek your assistance, my old friend, I have no help but to
mention it."

She had barely spoken as much as this, when she heard the youths at the
inner-door cry out: "The young gentleman from the Eastern Mansion has
come."

Lady Feng promptly interrupted her. "Old goody Liu," she remarked, "you
needn't add anything more." She, at the same time, inquired, "Where's
your master, Mr. Jung?" when became audible the sound of footsteps along
the way, and in walked a young man of seventeen or eighteen. His
appearance was handsome, his person slender and graceful. He had on
light furs, a girdle of value, costly clothes and a beautiful cap.

At this stage, goody Liu did not know whether it was best to sit down or
to stand up, neither could she find anywhere to hide herself.

"Pray sit down," urged lady Feng, with a laugh; "this is my nephew!' Old
goody Liu then wriggled herself, now one way, and then another, on to
the edge of the couch, where she took a seat.

"My father," Chia Jung smilingly ventured, "has sent me to ask a favour
of you, aunt. On some previous occasion, our grand aunt gave you, dear
aunt, a stove-couch glass screen, and as to-morrow father has invited
some guests of high standing, he wishes to borrow it to lay it out for a
little show; after which he purposes sending it back again."

"You're late by a day," replied lady Feng. "It was only yesterday that I
gave it to some one."

Chia Jung, upon hearing this, forthwith, with giggles and smiles, made,
near the edge of the couch, a sort of genuflexion. "Aunt," he went on,
"if you don't lend it, father will again say that I don't know how to
speak, and I shall get another sound thrashing. You must have pity upon
your nephew, aunt."

"I've never seen anything like this," observed lady Feng sneeringly;
"the things belonging to the Wang family are all good, but where have
you put all those things of yours? the only good way is that you
shouldn't see anything of ours, for as soon as you catch sight of
anything, you at once entertain a wish to carry it off."

"Pray, aunt," entreated Chia Jung with a smile, "do show me some
compassion."

"Mind your skin!" lady Feng warned him, "if you do chip or spoil it in
the least."

She then bade P'ing Erh take the keys of the door of the upstairs room
and send for several trustworthy persons to carry it away.

Chia Jung was so elated that his eyebrows dilated and his eyes smiled.
"I've brought myself," he added, with vehemence, "some men to take it
away; I won't let them recklessly bump it about."

Saying this, he speedily got up and left the room.

Lady Feng suddenly bethought herself of something, and turning towards
the window, she called out, "Jung Erh, come back." Several servants who
stood outside caught up her words: "Mr. Jung," they cried, "you're
requested to go back;" whereupon Chia Jung turned round and retraced his
steps; and with hands drooping respectfully against his sides, he stood
ready to listen to his aunt's wishes.

Lady Feng was however intent upon gently sipping her tea, and after a
good long while of abstraction, she at last smiled: "Never mind," she
remarked; "you can go. But come after you've had your evening meal, and
I'll then tell you about it. Just now there are visitors here; and
besides, I don't feel in the humour."

Chia Jung thereupon retired with gentle step.

Old goody Liu, by this time, felt more composed in body and heart. "I've
to-day brought your nephew," she then explained, "not for anything else,
but because his father and mother haven't at home so much as anything to
eat; the weather besides is already cold, so that I had no help but to
take your nephew along and come to you, old friend, for assistance!"

As she uttered these words, she again pushed Pan Erh forward. "What did
your father at home tell you to say?" she asked of him; "and what did he
send us over here to do? Was it only to give our minds to eating fruit?"

Lady Feng had long ago understood what she meant to convey, and finding
that she had no idea how to express herself in a decent manner, she
readily interrupted her with a smile. "You needn't mention anything,"
she observed, "I'm well aware of how things stand;" and addressing
herself to Mrs. Chou, she inquired, "Has this old lady had breakfast,
yes or no?"

Old goody Liu hurried to explain. "As soon as it was daylight," she
proceeded, "we started with all speed on our way here, and had we even
so much as time to have any breakfast?"

Lady Feng promptly gave orders to send for something to eat. In a short
while Chou Jui's wife had called for a table of viands for the guests,
which was laid in the room on the eastern side, and then came to take
goody Liu and Pan Erh over to have their repast.

"My dear Mrs. Chou," enjoined lady Feng, "give them all they want, as I
can't attend to them myself;" which said, they hastily passed over into
the room on the eastern side.

Lady Feng having again called Mrs. Chou, asked her: "When you first
informed madame about them, what did she say?" "Our Lady observed,"
replied Chou Jui's wife, "that they don't really belong to the same
family; that, in former years, their grandfather was an official at the
same place as our old master; that hence it came that they joined
ancestors; that these few years there hasn't been much intercourse
(between their family and ours); that some years back, whenever they
came on a visit, they were never permitted to go empty-handed, and that
as their coming on this occasion to see us is also a kind attention on
their part, they shouldn't be slighted. If they've anything to say,"
(our lady continued), "tell lady Secunda to do the necessary, and that
will be right."

"Isn't it strange!" exclaimed lady Feng, as soon as she had heard the
message; "since we are all one family, how is it I'm not familiar even
with so much as their shadow?"

While she was uttering these words, old goody Liu had had her repast and
come over, dragging Pan Erh; and, licking her lips and smacking her
mouth, she expressed her thanks.

Lady Feng smiled. "Do pray sit down," she said, "and listen to what I'm
going to tell you. What you, old lady, meant a little while back to
convey, I'm already as much as yourself well acquainted with! Relatives,
as we are, we shouldn't in fact have waited until you came to the
threshold of our doors, but ought, as is but right, to have attended to
your needs. But the thing is that, of late, the household affairs are
exceedingly numerous, and our lady, advanced in years as she is,
couldn't at a moment, it may possibly be, bethink herself of you all!
What's more, when I took over charge of the management of the menage, I
myself didn't know of all these family connections! Besides, though to
look at us from outside everything has a grand and splendid aspect,
people aren't aware that large establishments have such great hardships,
which, were we to recount to others, they would hardly like to credit as
true. But since you've now come from a great distance, and this is the
first occasion that you open your mouth to address me, how can I very
well allow you to return to your home with empty hands! By a lucky
coincidence our lady gave, yesterday, to the waiting-maids, twenty taels
to make clothes with, a sum which they haven't as yet touched, and if
you don't despise it as too little, you may take it home as a first
instalment, and employ it for your wants."

When old goody Liu heard the mention made by lady Feng of their
hardships, she imagined that there was no hope; but upon hearing her
again speak of giving her twenty taels, she was exceedingly delighted,
so much so that her eyebrows dilated and her eyes gleamed with smiles.

"We too know," she smilingly remarked, "all about difficulties! but the
proverb says, 'A camel dying of leanness is even bigger by much than a
horse!' No matter what those distresses may be, were you yet to pluck
one single hair from your body, my old friend, it would be stouter than
our own waist."

Chou Jui's wife stood by, and on hearing her make these coarse
utterances, she did all she could to give her a hint by winking, and
make her desist. Lady Feng laughed and paid no heed; but calling P'ing
Erh, she bade her fetch the parcel of money, which had been given to
them the previous day, and to also bring a string of cash; and when
these had been placed before goody Liu's eyes: "This is," said lady
Feng, "silver to the amount of twenty taels, which was for the time
given to these young girls to make winter clothes with; but some other
day, when you've nothing to do, come again on a stroll, in evidence of
the good feeling which should exist between relatives. It's besides
already late, and I don't wish to detain you longer and all for no
purpose; but, on your return home, present my compliments to all those
of yours to whom I should send them."

As she spake, she stood up. Old goody Liu gave utterance to a thousand
and ten thousand expressions of gratitude, and taking the silver and
cash, she followed Chou Jui's wife on her way to the out-houses. "Well,
mother dear," inquired Mrs. Chou, "what did you think of my lady that
you couldn't speak; and that whenever you opened your mouth it was all
'your nephew.' I'll make just one remark, and I don't mind if you do get
angry. Had he even been your kindred nephew, you should in fact have
been somewhat milder in your language; for that gentleman, Mr. Jung, is
her kith and kin nephew, and whence has appeared such another nephew of
hers (as Pan Erh)?"

Old goody Liu smiled. "My dear sister-in-law," she replied, "as I gazed
upon her, were my heart and eyes, pray, full of admiration or not? and
how then could I speak as I should?"

As they were chatting, they reached Chou Jui's house. They had been
sitting for a while, when old goody Liu produced a piece of silver,
which she was purposing to leave behind, to be given to the young
servants in Chou Jui's house to purchase fruit to eat; but how could
Mrs. Chou satiate her eye with such a small piece of silver? She was
determined in her refusal to accept it, so that old goody Liu, after
assuring her of her boundless gratitude, took her departure out of the
back gate she had come in from.

Reader, you do not know what happened after old goody Liu left, but
listen to the explanation which will be given in the next chapter.




CHAPTER VII.

  Presentation of artificial flowers made in the Palace.
  Chia Lien disports himself with Hsi-feng.
  Pao-yue meets Ch'in Chung at a family party.


To resume our narrative. Chou Jui's wife having seen old goody Liu off,
speedily came to report the visit to madame Wang; but, contrary to her
expectation, she did not find madame Wang in the drawing-room; and it
was after inquiring of the waiting-maids that she eventually learnt that
she had just gone over to have a chat with "aunt" Hsueeh. Mrs. Chou, upon
hearing this, hastily went out by the eastern corner door, and through
the yard on the east, into the Pear Fragrance Court.

As soon as she reached the entrance, she caught sight of madame Wang's
waiting-maid, Chin Ch'uan-erh, playing about on the terrace steps, with
a young girl, who had just let her hair grow. When they saw Chou Jui's
wife approach, they forthwith surmised that she must have some message
to deliver, so they pursed up their lips and directed her to the
inner-room. Chou Jui's wife gently raised the curtain-screen, and upon
entering discovered madame Wang, in voluble conversation with "aunt"
Hsueeh, about family questions and people in general.

Mrs. Chou did not venture to disturb them, and accordingly came into the
inner room, where she found Hsueeh Pao-ch'ai in a house dress, with her
hair simply twisted into a knot round the top of the head, sitting on
the inner edge of the stove-couch, leaning on a small divan table, in
the act of copying a pattern for embroidery, with the waiting-maid Ying
Erh. When she saw her enter, Pao Ch'ai hastily put down her pencil, and
turning round with a face beaming with smiles, "Sister Chou," she said,
"take a seat."

Chou Jui's wife likewise promptly returned the smile.

"How is my young lady?" she inquired, as she sat down on the edge of the
couch. "I haven't seen you come over on the other side for two or three
days! Has Mr. Pao-yue perhaps given you offence?"

"What an idea!" exclaimed Pao Ch'ai, with a smile. "It's simply that
I've had for the last couple of days my old complaint again, and that
I've in consequence kept quiet all this time, and looked after myself."

"Is that it?" asked Chou Jui's wife; "but after all, what rooted kind of
complaint are you subject to, miss? you should lose really no time in
sending for a doctor to diagnose it, and give you something to make you
all right. With your tender years, to have an organic ailment is indeed
no trifle!"

Pao Ch'ai laughed when she heard these remarks.

"Pray," she said, "don't allude to this again; for this ailment of mine
I've seen, I can't tell you, how many doctors; taken no end of medicine
and spent I don't know how much money; but the more we did so, not the
least little bit of relief did I see. Lucky enough, we eventually came
across a bald-pated bonze, whose speciality was the cure of nameless
illnesses. We therefore sent for him to see me, and he said that I had
brought this along with me from the womb as a sort of inflammatory
virus, that luckily I had a constitution strong and hale so that it
didn't matter; and that it would be of no avail if I took pills or any
medicines. He then told me a prescription from abroad, and gave me also
a packet of a certain powder as a preparative, with a peculiar smell and
strange flavour. He advised me, whenever my complaint broke out, to take
a pill, which would be sure to put me right again. And this has, after
all, strange to say, done me a great deal of good."

"What kind of prescription is this one from abroad, I wonder," remarked
Mrs. Chou; "if you, miss, would only tell me, it would be worth our
while bearing it in mind, and recommending it to others: and if ever we
came across any one afflicted with this disease, we would also be doing
a charitable deed."

"You'd better not ask for the prescription," rejoined Pao Ch'ai smiling.
"Why, its enough to wear one out with perplexity! the necessaries and
ingredients are few, and all easy to get, but it would be difficult to
find the lucky moment! You want twelve ounces of the pollen of the white
peone, which flowers in spring, twelve ounces of the pollen of the white
summer lily, twelve ounces of the pollen of the autumn hibiscus flower,
and twelve ounces of the white plum in bloom in the winter. You take the
four kinds of pollen, and put them in the sun, on the very day of the
vernal equinox of the succeeding year to get dry, and then you mix them
with the powder and pound them well together. You again want twelve mace
of water, fallen on 'rain water' day....."

"Good gracious!" exclaimed Mrs. Chou promptly, as she laughed. "From all
you say, why you want three years' time! and what if no rain falls on
'rain water' day! What would one then do?"

"Quite so!" Pao Ch'ai remarked smilingly; "how can there be such an
opportune rain on that very day! but to wait is also the best thing,
there's nothing else to be done. Besides, you want twelve mace of dew,
collected on 'White Dew' day, and twelve mace of the hoar frost,
gathered on 'Frost Descent' day, and twelve mace of snow, fallen on
'Slight Snow' day! You next take these four kinds of waters and mix them
with the other ingredients, and make pills of the size of a lungngan.
You keep them in an old porcelain jar, and bury them under the roots of
some flowers; and when the ailment betrays itself, you produce it and
take a pill, washing it down with two candareens of a yellow cedar
decoction."

"O-mi-to-fu!" cried Mrs. Chou, when she heard all this, bursting out
laughing. "It's really enough to kill one! you might wait ten years and
find no such lucky moments!"

"Fortunate for me, however," pursued Pao Ch'ai, "in the course of a year
or two, after the bonze had told me about this prescription, we got all
the ingredients; and, after much trouble, we compounded a supply, which
we have now brought along with us from the south to the north; and lies
at present under the pear trees."

"Has this medicine any name or other of its own?" further inquired Mrs.
Chou.

"It has a name," replied Pao Ch'ai; "the mangy-headed bonze also told it
me; he called it 'cold fragrance' pill."

Chou Jui's wife nodded her head, as she heard these words. "What do you
feel like after all when this complaint manifests itself?" she went on
to ask.

"Nothing much," replied Pao Ch'ai; "I simply pant and cough a bit; but
after I've taken a pill, I get over it, and it's all gone."

Mrs. Chou was bent upon making some further remark, when madame Wang was
suddenly heard to enquire, "Who is in here?"

Mrs. Chou went out hurriedly and answered; and forthwith told her all
about old goody Liu's visit. Having waited for a while, and seeing that
madame Wang had nothing to say, she was on the point of retiring, when
"aunt" Hsueh unexpectedly remarked smiling: "Wait a bit! I've something
to give you to take along with you."

And as she spoke, she called for Hsiang Ling. The sound of the
screen-board against the sides of the door was heard, and in walked the
waiting-maid, who had been playing with Chin Ch'uan-erh. "Did my lady
call?" she asked.

"Bring that box of flowers," said Mrs. Hsueh.

Hsiang Ling assented, and brought from the other side a small
embroidered silk box.

"These," explained "aunt" Hsueeh, "are a new kind of flowers, made in the
palace. They consist of twelve twigs of flowers of piled gauze. I
thought of them yesterday, and as they will, the pity is, only get old,
if uselessly put away, why not give them to the girls to wear them in
their hair! I meant to have sent them over yesterday, but I forgot all
about them. You come to-day most opportunely, and if you will take them
with you, I shall have got them off my hands. To the three young ladies
in your family give two twigs each, and of the six that will remain give
a couple to Miss Lin, and the other four to lady Feng."

"Better keep them and give them to your daughter Pao Ch'ai to wear,"
observed madame Wang, "and have done with it; why think of all the
others?"

"You don't know, sister," replied "aunt" Hsueeh, "what a crotchety thing
Pao Ch'ai is! she has no liking for flower or powder."

With these words on her lips, Chou Jui's wife took the box and walked
out of the door of the room. Perceiving that Chin Ch'uan-erh was still
sunning herself outside, Chou Jui's wife asked her: "Isn't this Hsiang
Ling, the waiting-maid that we've often heard of as having been
purchased just before the departure of the Hsueeh family for the capital,
and on whose account there occurred some case of manslaughter or other?"

"Of course it's she," replied Chin Ch'uan. But as they were talking,
they saw Hsiang Ling draw near smirkingly, and Chou Jui's wife at once
seized her by the hand, and after minutely scrutinizing her face for a
time, she turned round to Chin Ch'uan-erh and smiled. "With these
features she really resembles slightly the style of lady Jung of our
Eastern Mansion."

"So I too maintain!" said Chin Ch'uan-erh.

Chou Jui's wife then asked Hsiang Ling, "At what age did you enter this
family? and where are your father and mother at present?" and also
inquired, "In what year of your teens are you? and of what place are you
a native?"

But Hsiang Ling, after listening to all these questions, simply nodded
her head and replied, "I can't remember."

When Mrs. Chou and Chin Ch'uan-erh heard these words, their spirits
changed to grief, and for a while they felt affected and wounded at
heart; but in a short time, Mrs. Chou brought the flowers into the room
at the back of madame Wang's principal apartment.

The fact is that dowager lady Chia had explained that as her
granddaughters were too numerous, it would not be convenient to crowd
them together in one place, that Pao-yue and Tai-yue should only remain
with her in this part to break her loneliness, but that Ying Ch'un, T'an
Ch'un, and Hsi Ch'un, the three of them, should move on this side in the
three rooms within the antechamber, at the back of madame lady Wang's
quarters; and that Li Wan should be told off to be their attendant and
to keep an eye over them.

Chou Jui's wife, therefore, on this occasion came first to these rooms
as they were on her way, but she only found a few waiting-maids
assembled in the antechamber, waiting silently to obey a call.

Ying Ch'un's waiting-maid, Ssu Chi, together with Shih Shu, T'an Ch'un's
waiting-maid, just at this moment raised the curtain, and made their
egress, each holding in her hand a tea-cup and saucer; and Chou Jui's
wife readily concluding that the young ladies were sitting together also
walked into the inner room, where she only saw Ying Ch'un and T'an Ch'un
seated near the window, in the act of playing chess. Mrs. Chou presented
the flowers and explained whence they came, and what they were.

The girls forthwith interrupted their game, and both with a curtsey,
expressed their thanks, and directed the waiting-maids to put the
flowers away.

Mrs. Chou complied with their wishes (and handing over the flowers);
"Miss Hsi Ch'un," she remarked, "is not at home; and possibly she's over
there with our old lady."

"She's in that room, isn't she?" inquired the waiting-maids.

Mrs. Chou at these words readily came into the room on this side, where
she found Hsi Ch'un, in company with a certain Chih Neng, a young nun of
the "moon reflected on water" convent, talking and laughing together. On
seeing Chou Jui's wife enter, Hsi Ch'un at once asked what she wanted,
whereupon Chou Jui's wife opened the box of flowers, and explained who
had sent them.

"I was just telling Chih Neng," remarked Hsi Ch'un laughing, "that I
also purpose shortly shaving my head and becoming a nun; and strange
enough, here you again bring me flowers; but supposing I shave my head,
where can I wear them?"

They were all very much amused for a time with this remark, and Hsi
Ch'un told her waiting-maid, Ju Hua, to come and take over the flowers.

"What time did you come over?" then inquired Mrs. Chou of Chih Neng.
"Where is that bald-pated and crotchety superior of yours gone?"

"We came," explained Chih Neng, "as soon as it was day; after calling
upon madame Wang, my superior went over to pay a visit in the mansion of
Mr. Yue, and told me to wait for her here."

"Have you received," further asked Mrs. Chou, "the monthly allowance for
incense offering due on the fifteenth or not?"

"I can't say," replied Chih Neng.

"Who's now in charge of the issue of the monthly allowances to the
various temples?" interposed Hsi Ch'un, addressing Mrs. Chou, as soon as
she heard what was said.

"It's Yue Hsin," replied Chou Jui's wife, "who's intrusted with the
charge."

"That's how it is," observed Hsi Ch'un with a chuckle; "soon after the
arrival of the Superior, Yue Hsin's wife came over and kept on whispering
with her for some time; so I presume it must have been about this
allowance."

Mrs. Chou then went on to bandy a few words with Chih Neng, after which
she came over to lady Feng's apartments. Proceeding by a narrow passage,
she passed under Li Wan's back windows, and went along the wall
ornamented with creepers on the west. Going out of the western side
gate, she entered lady Feng's court, and walked over into the Entrance
Hall, where she only found the waiting-girl Feng Erh, sitting on the
doorsteps of lady Feng's apartments.

When she caught sight of Mrs. Chou approaching, she at once waved her
hand, bidding her go to the eastern room. Chou Jui's wife understood her
meaning, and hastily came on tiptoe to the chamber on the east, where
she saw a nurse patting lady Feng's daughter to sleep.

Mrs. Chou promptly asked the nurse in a low tone of voice: "Is the young
lady asleep at this early hour? But if even she is I must wake her up."

The nurse nodded her head in assent, but as these inquiries were being
made, a sound of laughter came from over the other side, in which lady
Feng's voice could be detected; followed, shortly after, by the sound of
a door opening, and out came P'ing Erh, with a large brass basin in her
hands, which she told Feng Erh to fill with water and take inside.

P'ing Erh forthwith entered the room on this side, and upon perceiving
Chou Jui's wife: "What have you come here again for, my old lady?" she
readily inquired.

Chou Jui's wife rose without any delay, and handed her the box. "I've
come," said she, "to bring you a present of flowers."

Upon hearing this, P'ing Erh opened the box, and took out four sprigs,
and, turning round, walked out of the room. In a short while she came
from the inner room with two sprigs in her hand, and calling first of
all Ts'ai Ming, she bade her take the flowers over to the mansion on the
other side and present them to "madame" Jung, after which she asked Mrs.
Chou to express her thanks on her return.

Chou Jui's wife thereupon came over to dowager lady Chia's room on this
side of the compound, and as she was going through the Entrance Hall,
she casually came, face to face, with her daughter, got up in gala
dress, just coming from the house of her mother-in-law.

"What are you running over here for at this time?" promptly inquired
Mrs. Chou.

"Have you been well of late, mother?" asked her daughter. "I've been
waiting for ever so long at home, but you never come out! What's there
so pressing that has prevented you from returning home? I waited till I
was tired, and then went on all alone, and paid my respects to our
venerable lady; I'm now, on my way to inquire about our lady Wang. What
errand haven't you delivered as yet, ma; and what is it you're holding?"

"Ai! as luck would have it," rejoined Chou Jui's wife smilingly, "old
goody Liu came over to-day, so that besides my own hundred and one
duties, I've had to run about here and there ever so long, and all for
her! While attending to these, Mrs. Hsueh came across me, and asked me
to take these flowers to the young ladies, and I've been at it up to
this very moment, and haven't done yet! But coming at this time, you
must surely have something or other that you want me to do for you!
what's it?"

"Really ma, you're quick at guessing!" exclaimed her daughter with a
smile; "I'll tell you what it's all about. The day before yesterday,
your son-in-law had a glass of wine too many, and began altercating with
some person or other; and some one, I don't know why, spread some evil
report, saying that his antecedents were not clear, and lodged a charge
against him at the Yamen, pressing the authorities to deport him to his
native place. That's why I've come over to consult with you, as to whom
we should appeal to, to do us this favour of helping us out of our
dilemma!"

"I knew at once," Mrs. Chou remarked after listening, "that there was
something wrong; but this is nothing hard to settle! Go home and wait
for me and I'll come straightway, as soon as I've taken these flowers to
Miss Lin; our madame Wang and lady Secunda have both no leisure (to
attend to you now,) so go back and wait for me! What's the use of so
much hurry!"

Her daughter, upon hearing this, forthwith turned round to go back, when
she added as she walked away, "Mind, mother, and make haste."

"All right," replied Chou Jui's wife, "of course I will; you are young
yet, and without experience, and that's why you are in this flurry."

As she spoke, she betook herself into Tai-yue's apartments. Contrary to
her expectation Tai-yue was not at this time in her own room, but in
Pao-yue's; where they were amusing themselves in trying to solve the
"nine strung rings" puzzle. On entering Mrs. Chou put on a smile.
"'Aunt' Hsueeh," she explained, "has told me to bring these flowers and
present them to you to wear in your hair."

"What flowers?" exclaimed Pao-yue. "Bring them here and let me see them."

As he uttered these words, he readily stretched out his hands and took
them over, and upon opening the box and looking in, he discovered, in
fact, two twigs of a novel and artistic kind of artificial flowers, of
piled gauze, made in the palace.

Tai-yue merely cast a glance at them, as Pao-yue held them. "Have these
flowers," she inquired eagerly, "been sent to me alone, or have all the
other girls got some too?"

"Each one of the young ladies has the same," replied Mrs. Chou; "and
these two twigs are intended for you, miss."

Tai-yue forced a smile. "Oh! I see," she observed. "If all the others
hadn't chosen, even these which remain over wouldn't have been given to
me."

Chou Jui's wife did not utter a word in reply.

"Sister Chou, what took you over on the other side?" asked Pao-yue.

"I was told that our madame Wang was over there," explained Mrs. Chou,
"and as I went to give her a message, 'aunt' Hsueeh seized the
opportunity to ask me to bring over these flowers."

"What was cousin Pao Ch'ai doing at home?" asked Pao-yue. "How is it
she's not even been over for these few days?"

"She's not quite well," remarked Mrs. Chou.

When Pao-yue heard this news, "Who'll go," he speedily ascertained of the
waiting-maids, "and inquire after her? Tell her that cousin Lin and I
have sent round to ask how our aunt and cousin are getting on! ask her
what she's ailing from and what medicines she's taking, and explain to
her that I know I ought to have gone over myself, but that on my coming
back from school a short while back, I again got a slight chill; and
that I'll go in person another day."

While Pao-yue was yet speaking, Hsi Hsueeh volunteered to take the
message, and went off at once; and Mrs. Chou herself took her leave
without another word.

Mrs. Chou's son-in-law was, in fact, Leng Tzu-hsing, the intimate friend
of Yue-ts'un. Having recently become involved with some party in a
lawsuit, on account of the sale of some curios, he had expressly charged
his wife to come and sue for the favour (of a helping hand). Chou Jui's
wife, relying upon her master's prestige, did not so much as take the
affair to heart; and having waited till evening, she simply went over
and requested lady Feng to befriend her, and the matter was forthwith
ended.

When the lamps were lit, lady Feng came over, after having disrobed
herself, to see madame Wang. "I've already taken charge," she observed,
"of the things sent round to-day by the Chen family. As for the presents
from us to them, we should avail ourselves of the return of the boats,
by which the fresh delicacies for the new year were forwarded, to hand
them to them to carry back."

Madame Wang nodded her head in token of approval.

"The birthday presents," continued lady Feng, "for lady Ling Ngan, the
mother of the Earl of Ling Ngan, have already been got together, and
whom will you depute to take them over?"

"See," suggested madame Wang, "who has nothing to do; let four maids go
and all will be right! why come again and ask me?"

"Our eldest sister-in-law Chen," proceeded lady Feng, "came over to
invite me to go to-morrow to their place for a little change. I don't
think there will be anything for me to do to-morrow."

"Whether there be or not," replied madame Wang, "it doesn't matter; you
must go, for whenever she comes with an invitation, it includes us, who
are your seniors, so that, of course, it isn't such a pleasant thing for
you; but as she doesn't ask us this time, but only asks you, it's
evident that she's anxious that you should have a little distraction,
and you mustn't disappoint her good intention. Besides it's certainly
right that you should go over for a change."

Lady Feng assented, and presently Li Wan, Ying Ch'un and the other
cousins, likewise paid each her evening salutation and retired to their
respective rooms, where nothing of any notice transpired.

The next day lady Feng completed her toilette, and came over first to
tell madame Wang that she was off, and then went to say good-bye to
dowager lady Chia; but when Pao-yue heard where she was going, he also
wished to go; and as lady Feng had no help but to give in, and to wait
until he had changed his clothes, the sister and brother-in-law got into
a carriage, and in a short while entered the Ning mansion.

Mrs. Yu, the wife of Chia Chen, and Mrs. Ch'in, the wife of Mr. Chia
Jung, the two sisters-in-law, had, along with a number of maids,
waiting-girls, and other servants, come as far as the ceremonial gate to
receive them, and Mrs. Yu, upon meeting lady Feng, for a while indulged,
as was her wont, in humorous remarks, after which, leading Pao-yue by the
hand, they entered the drawing room and took their seats, Mrs. Ch'in
handed tea round.

"What have you people invited me to come here for?" promptly asked lady
Feng; "if you have anything to present me with, hand it to me at once,
for I've other things to attend to."

Mrs. Yu and Mrs. Ch'in had barely any time to exchange any further
remarks, when several matrons interposed, smilingly: "Had our lady not
come to-day, there would have been no help for it, but having come, you
can't have it all your own way."

While they were conversing about one thing and another, they caught
sight of Chia Jung come in to pay his respects, which prompted Pao-yue to
inquire, "Isn't my elder brother at home to-day?"

"He's gone out of town to-day," replied Mrs. Yu, "to inquire after his
grandfather. You'll find sitting here," she continued, "very dull, and
why not go out and have a stroll?"

"A strange coincidence has taken place to-day," urged Mrs. Ch'in, with a
smile; "some time back you, uncle Pao, expressed a wish to see my
brother, and to-day he too happens to be here at home. I think he's in
the library; but why not go and see for yourself, uncle Pao?"

Pao-yue descended at once from the stove-couch, and was about to go, when
Mrs. Yu bade the servants to mind and go with him. "Don't you let him
get into trouble," she enjoined. "It's a far different thing when he
comes over under the charge of his grandmother, when he's all right."

"If that be so," remarked lady Feng, "why not ask the young gentleman to
come in, and then I too can see him. There isn't, I hope, any objection
to my seeing him?"

"Never mind! never mind!" observed Mrs. Yu, smilingly; "it's as well
that you shouldn't see him. This brother of mine is not, like the boys
of our Chia family, accustomed to roughly banging and knocking about.
Other people's children are brought up politely and properly, and not in
this vixenish style of yours. Why, you'd ridicule him to death!"

"I won't laugh at him then, that's all," smiled lady Feng; "tell them to
bring him in at once."

"He's shy," proceeded Mrs. Ch'in, "and has seen nothing much of the
world, so that you are sure to be put out when you see him, sister."

"What an idea!" exclaimed lady Feng. "Were he even No Cha himself, I'd
like to see him; so don't talk trash; if, after all, you don't bring him
round at once, I'll give you a good slap on the mouth."

"I daren't be obstinate," answered Mrs. Ch'in smiling; "I'll bring him
round!"

In a short while she did in fact lead in a young lad, who, compared with
Pao-yue, was somewhat more slight but, from all appearances, superior to
Pao-yue in eyes and eyebrows, (good looks), which were so clear and
well-defined, in white complexion and in ruddy lips, as well as graceful
appearance and pleasing manners. He was however bashful and timid, like
a girl.

In a shy and demure way, he made a bow to lady Feng and asked after her
health.

Lady Feng was simply delighted with him. "You take a low seat next to
him!" she ventured laughingly as she first pushed Pao-yue back. Then
readily stooping forward, she took this lad by the hand and asked him to
take a seat next to her. Presently she inquired about his age, his
studies and such matters, when she found that at school he went under
the name of Ch'in Chung.

The matrons and maids in attendance on lady Feng, perceiving that this
was the first time their mistress met Ch'in Chung, (and knowing) that
she had not at hand the usual presents, forthwith ran over to the other
side and told P'ing Erh about it.

P'ing Erh, aware of the close intimacy that existed between lady Feng
and Mrs. Ch'in, speedily took upon herself to decide, and selecting a
piece of silk, and two small gold medals, (bearing the wish that he
should attain) the highest degree, the senior wranglership, she handed
them to the servants who had come over, to take away.

Lady Feng, however, explained that her presents were too mean by far,
but Mrs. Ch'in and the others expressed their appreciation of them; and
in a short time the repast was over, and Mrs. Yu, lady Feng and Mrs.
Ch'in played at dominoes, but of this no details need be given; while
both Pao-yue and Ch'in Chung sat down, got up and talked, as they
pleased.

Since he had first glanced at Ch'in Chung, and seen what kind of person
he was, he felt at heart as if he had lost something, and after being
plunged in a dazed state for a time, he began again to give way to
foolish thoughts in his mind.

"There are then such beings as he in the world!" he reflected. "I now
see there are! I'm however no better than a wallowing pig or a mangy
cow! Despicable destiny! why was I ever born in this household of a
marquis and in the mansion of a duke? Had I seen the light in the home
of some penniless scholar, or poverty-stricken official, I could long
ago have enjoyed the communion of his friendship, and I would not have
lived my whole existence in vain! Though more honourable than he, it is
indeed evident that silk and satins only serve to swathe this rotten
trunk of mine, and choice wines and rich meats only to gorge the filthy
drain and miry sewer of this body of mine! Wealth! and splendour! ye are
no more than contaminated with pollution by me!"

Ever since Ch'in Chung had noticed Pao-yue's unusual appearance, his
sedate deportment, and what is more, his hat ornamented with gold, and
his dress full of embroidery, attended by beautiful maids and handsome
youths, he did not indeed think it a matter of surprise that every one
was fond of him.

"Born as I have had the misfortune to be," he went on to commune within
himself, "in an honest, though poor family, how can I presume to enjoy
his companionship! This is verily a proof of what a barrier poverty and
wealth set between man and man. What a serious misfortune is this too in
this mortal world!"

In wild and inane ideas of the same strain, indulged these two youths!

Pao-yue by and by further asked of him what books he was reading, and
Ch'in Chung, in answer to these inquiries, told him the truth. A few
more questions and answers followed; and after about ten remarks, a
greater intimacy sprang up between them.

Tea and fruits were shortly served, and while they were having their
tea, Pao-yue suggested, "We two don't take any wine, and why shouldn't we
have our fruit served on the small couch inside, and go and sit there,
and thus save you all the trouble?"

The two of them thereupon came into the inner apartment to have their
tea; and Mrs. Ch'in attended to the laying out of fruit and wines for
lady Feng, and hurriedly entered the room and hinted to Pao-yue: "Dear
uncle Pao, your nephew is young, and should he happen to say anything
disrespectful, do please overlook it, for my sake, for though shy, he's
naturally of a perverse and wilful disposition, and is rather given to
having his own way."

"Off with you!" cried Pao-yue laughing; "I know it all." Mrs. Ch'in then
went on to give a bit of advice to her brother, and at length came to
keep lady Feng company. Presently lady Feng and Mrs. Yu sent another
servant to tell Pao-yue that there was outside of everything they might
wish to eat and that they should mind and go and ask for it; and Pao-yue
simply signified that they would; but his mind was not set upon drinking
or eating; all he did was to keep making inquiries of Ch'in Chung about
recent family concerns.

Ch'in Chung went on to explain that his tutor had last year relinquished
his post, that his father was advanced in years and afflicted with
disease, and had multifarious public duties to preoccupy his mind, so
that he had as yet had no time to make arrangements for another tutor,
and that all he did was no more than to keep up his old tasks; that as
regards study, it was likewise necessary to have the company of one or
two intimate friends, as then only, by dint of a frequent exchange of
ideas and opinions, one could arrive at progress; and Pao-yue gave him no
time to complete, but eagerly urged, "Quite so! But in our household, we
have a family school, and those of our kindred who have no means
sufficient to engage the services of a tutor are at liberty to come over
for the sake of study, and the sons and brothers of our relatives are
likewise free to join the class. As my own tutor went home last year, I
am now also wasting my time doing nothing; my father's intention was
that I too should have gone over to this school, so that I might at
least temporarily keep up what I have already read, pending the arrival
of my tutor next year, when I could again very well resume my studies
alone at home. But my grandmother raised objections; maintaining first
of all, that the boys who attend the family classes being so numerous,
she feared we would be sure to be up to mischief, which wouldn't be at
all proper; and that, in the second place, as I had been ill for some
time, the matter should be dropped, for the present. But as, from what
you say, your worthy father is very much exercised on this score, you
should, on your return, tell him all about it, and come over to our
school. I'll also be there as your schoolmate; and as you and I will
reap mutual benefit from each other's companionship, won't it be nice!"

"When my father was at home the other day," Ch'in Chung smiled and said,
"he alluded to the question of a tutor, and explained that the free
schools were an excellent institution. He even meant to have come and
talked matters over with his son-in-law's father about my introduction,
but with the urgent concerns here, he didn't think it right for him to
come about this small thing, and make any trouble. But if you really
believe that I might be of use to you, in either grinding the ink, or
washing the slab, why shouldn't you at once make the needful
arrangements, so that neither you nor I may idle our time? And as we
shall be able to come together often and talk matters over, and set at
the same time our parents' minds at ease, and to enjoy the pleasure of
friendship, won't it be a profitable thing!"

"Compose your mind!" suggested Pao-yue. "We can by and by first of all,
tell your brother-in-law, and your sister as well as sister-in-law
Secunda Lien; and on your return home to-day, lose no time in explaining
all to your worthy father, and when I get back, I'll speak to my
grandmother; and I can't see why our wishes shouldn't speedily be
accomplished."

By the time they had arrived at this conclusion, the day was far
advanced, and the lights were about to be lit; and they came out and
watched them once more for a time as they played at dominoes. When they
came to settle their accounts Mrs. Ch'in and Mrs. Yu were again the
losers and had to bear the expense of a theatrical and dinner party; and
while deciding that they should enjoy this treat the day after the
morrow, they also had the evening repast.

Darkness having set in, Mrs. Yu gave orders that two youths should
accompany Mr. Ch'in home. The matrons went out to deliver the
directions, and after a somewhat long interval, Ch'in Chung said goodbye
and was about to start on his way.

"Whom have you told off to escort him?" asked Mrs. Yu.

"Chiao Ta," replied the matrons, "has been told to go, but it happens
that he's under the effects of drink and making free use again of
abusive language."

Mrs. Yu and Mrs. Chin remonstrated. "What's the use," they said, "of
asking him? that mean fellow shouldn't be chosen, but you will go again
and provoke him."

"People always maintain," added lady Feng, "that you are far too
lenient. But fancy allowing servants in this household to go on in this
way; why, what will be the end of it?"

"You don't mean to tell me," observed Mrs. Yu, "that you don't know this
Chiao Ta? Why, even the gentlemen one and all pay no heed to his doings!
your eldest brother, Chia Cheng, he too doesn't notice him. It's all
because when he was young he followed our ancestor in three or four
wars, and because on one occasion, by extracting our senior from the
heap of slain and carrying him on his back, he saved his life. He
himself suffered hunger and stole food for his master to eat; they had
no water for two days; and when he did get half a bowl, he gave it to
his master, while he himself had sewage water. He now simply presumes
upon the sentimental obligations imposed by these services. When the
seniors of the family still lived, they all looked upon him with
exceptional regard; but who at present ventures to interfere with him?
He is also advanced in years, and doesn't care about any decent manners;
his sole delight is wine; and when he gets drunk, there isn't a single
person whom he won't abuse. I've again and again told the stewards not
to henceforward ask Chiao Ta to do any work whatever, but to treat him
as dead and gone; and here he's sent again to-day."

"How can I not know all about this Chiao Ta?" remarked lady Feng; "but
the secret of all this trouble is, that you won't take any decisive
step. Why not pack him off to some distant farm, and have done with
him?" And as she spoke, "Is our carriage ready?" she went on to inquire.

"All ready and waiting," interposed the married women.

Lady Feng also got up, said good-bye, and hand in hand with Pao-yue, they
walked out of the room, escorted by Mrs. Yu and the party, as far as the
entrance of the Main Hall, where they saw the lamps shedding a brilliant
light and the attendants all waiting on the platforms. Chiao Ta,
however, availing himself of Chia Chen's absence from home, and elated
by wine, began to abuse the head steward Lai Erh for his injustice.

"You bully of the weak and coward with the strong," he cried, "when
there's any pleasant charge, you send the other servants, but when it's
a question of seeing any one home in the dark, then you ask me, you
disorderly clown! a nice way you act the steward, indeed! Do you forget
that if Mr. Chiao Ta chose to raise one leg, it would be a good deal
higher than your head! Remember please, that twenty years ago, Mr. Chiao
Ta wouldn't even so much as look at any one, no matter who it was; not
to mention a pack of hybrid creatures like yourselves!"

While he went on cursing and railing with all his might, Chia Jung
appeared walking by lady Feng's carriage. All the servants having tried
to hush him and not succeeding, Chia Jung became exasperated; and
forthwith blew him up for a time. "Let some one bind him up," he cried,
"and tomorrow, when he's over the wine, I'll call him to task, and we'll
see if he won't seek death."

Chiao Ta showed no consideration for Chia Jung. On the contrary, he
shouted with more vigour. Going up to Chia Jung: "Brother Jung," he
said, "don't put on the airs of a master with Chiao Ta. Not to speak of
a man such as you, why even your father and grandfather wouldn't presume
to display such side with Chiao Ta. Were it not for Chiao Ta, and him
alone, where would your office, honours, riches and dignity be? Your
ancestor, whom I brought back from the jaws of death, heaped up all this
estate, but up to this very day have I received no thanks for the
services I rendered! on the contrary, you come here and play the master;
don't say a word more, and things may come right; but if you do, I'll
plunge the blade of a knife white in you and extract it red."

Lady Feng, from inside the carriage, remarked to Chia Jung: "Don't you
yet pack off this insolent fellow! Why, if you keep him in your house,
won't he be a source of mischief? Besides, were relatives and friends to
hear about these things, won't they have a laugh at our expense, that a
household like ours should be so devoid of all propriety?"

Chia Jung assented. The whole band of servants finding that Chiao Ta was
getting too insolent had no help but to come up and throw him over, and
binding him up, they dragged him towards the stables. Chiao Ta abused
even Chia Chen with still more vehemence, and shouted in a boisterous
manner. "I want to go," he cried, "to the family Ancestral Temple and
mourn my old master. Who would have ever imagined that he would leave
behind such vile creatures of descendants as you all, day after day
indulging in obscene and incestuous practices, 'in scraping of the
ashes' and in philandering with brothers-in-law. I know all about your
doings; the best thing is to hide one's stump of an arm in one's
sleeve!" (wash one's dirty clothes at home).

The servants who stood by, upon hearing this wild talk, were quite at
their wits' end, and they at once seized him, tied him up, and filled
his mouth to the fullest extent with mud mixed with some horse refuse.

Lady Feng and Chia Jung heard all he said from a distance, but pretended
not to hear; but Pao-yue, seated in the carriage as he was, also caught
this extravagant talk and inquired of lady Feng: "Sister, did you hear
him say something about 'scraping of the ashes?' What's it?"

"Don't talk such rubbish!" hastily shouted lady Feng; "it was the
maudlin talk of a drunkard! A nice boy you are! not to speak of your
listening, but you must also inquire! wait and I'll tell your mother and
we'll see if she doesn't seriously take you to task."

Pao-yue was in such a state of fright that he speedily entreated her to
forgive him. "My dear sister," he craved, "I won't venture again to say
anything of the kind"

"My dear brother, if that be so, it's all right!" rejoined lady Feng
reassuringly; "on our return we'll speak to her venerable ladyship and
ask her to send some one to arrange matters in the family school, and
invite Ch'in Chung to come to school for his studies."

While yet this conversation was going on, they arrived at the Jung
Mansion.

Reader, do you wish to know what follows? if you do, the next chapter
will unfold it.




CHAPTER VIII.

  By a strange coincidence, Chia Pao-yue becomes acquainted with the
      golden clasp.
  In an unexpected meeting, Hsueeh Pao-ch'ai sees the jade of spiritual
      perception.


Pao-yue and lady Feng, we will now explain, paid, on their return home,
their respects to all the inmates, and Pao-yue availed himself of the
first occasion to tell dowager lady Chia of his wish that Ch'in Chung
should come over to the family school. "The presence for himself of a
friend as schoolmate would," he argued, "be fitly excellent to stir him
to zeal," and he went on to speak in terms of high praise of Ch'in
Chung, his character and his manners, which most of all made people
esteem him.

Lady Feng besides stood by him and backed his request. "In a day or
two," she added, "Ch'in Chung will be coming to pay his obeisance to
your venerable ladyship."

This bit of news greatly rejoiced the heart of dowager lady Chia, and
lady Feng likewise did not let the opportunity slip, without inviting
the old lady to attend the theatrical performance to come off the day
after the morrow. Dowager lady Chia was, it is true, well on in years,
but was, nevertheless, very fond of enjoyment, so that when the day
arrived and Mrs. Yu came over to invite her round, she forthwith took
madame Wang, Lin Tai-yue, Pao-yue and others along and went to the play.

It was about noon, when dowager lady Chia returned to her apartments for
her siesta; and madame Wang, who was habitually partial to a quiet life,
also took her departure after she had seen the old lady retire. Lady
Feng subsequently took the seat of honour; and the party enjoyed
themselves immensely till the evening, when they broke up.

But to return to Pao-yue. Having accompanied his grandmother Chia back
home, and waited till her ladyship was in her midday sleep, he had in
fact an inclination to return to the performance, but he was afraid lest
he should be a burden to Mrs. Ch'in and the rest and lest they should
not feel at ease. Remembering therefore that Pao Ch'ai had been at home
unwell for the last few days, and that he had not been to see her, he
was anxious to go and look her up, but he dreaded that if he went by the
side gate, at the back of the drawing-room, he would be prevented by
something or other, and fearing, what would be making matters worse,
lest he should come across his father, he consequently thought it better
to go on his way by a detour. The nurses and waiting-maids thereupon
came to help him to change his clothes; but they saw him not change, but
go out again by the second door. These nurses and maids could not help
following him out; but they were still under the impression that he was
going over to the other mansion to see the theatricals. Contrary to
their speculations, upon reaching the entrance hall, he forthwith went
to the east, then turned to the north, and walking round by the rear of
the hall, he happened to come face to face with two of the family
companions, Mr. Ch'an Kuang, and Mr. Tan T'ing-jen. As soon as they
caught sight of Pao-yue, they both readily drew up to him, and as they
smiled, the one put his arm round his waist, while the other grasped him
by the hand.

"Oh divine brother!" they both exclaimed, "this we call dreaming a
pleasant dream, for it's no easy thing to come across you!"

While continuing their remarks they paid their salutations, and inquired
after his health; and it was only after they had chatted for ever so
long, that they went on their way. The nurse called out to them and
stopped them, "Have you two gentlemen," she said, "come out from seeing
master?"

They both nodded assent. "Your master," they explained, "is in the Meng
P'o Chai small library having his siesta; so that you can go through
there with no fear."

As they uttered these words, they walked away.

This remark also evoked a smile from Pao-yue, but without further delay
he turned a corner, went towards the north, and came into the Pear
Fragrance Court, where, as luck would have it, he met the head manager
of the Household Treasury, Wu Hsin-teng, who, in company with the head
of the granary, Tai Liang, and several other head stewards, seven
persons in all, was issuing out of the Account Room.

On seeing Pao-yue approaching, they, in a body, stood still, and hung
down their arms against their sides. One of them alone, a certain
butler, called Ch'ien Hua, promptly came forward, as he had not seen
Pao-yue for many a day, and bending on one knee, paid his respects to
Pao-yue. Pao-yue at once gave a smile and pulled him up.

"The day before yesterday," smiled all the bystanders, "we were
somewhere together and saw some characters written by you, master
Secundus, in the composite style. The writing is certainly better than
it was before! When will you give us a few sheets to stick on the wall?"

"Where did you see them?" inquired Pao-yue, with a grin.

"They are to be found in more than one place," they replied, "and every
one praises them very much, and what's more, asks us for a few."

"They are not worth having," observed Pao-yue smilingly; "but if you do
want any, tell my young servants and it will be all right."

As he said these words, he moved onwards. The whole party waited till he
had gone by, before they separated, each one to go his own way.

But we need not dilate upon matters of no moment, but return to Pao-yue.

On coming to the Pear Fragrance Court, he entered, first, into "aunt"
Hsueeh's room, where he found her getting some needlework ready to give
to the waiting-maids to work at. Pao-yue forthwith paid his respects to
her, and "aunt" Hsueeh, taking him by the hand, drew him towards her and
clasped him in her embrace.

"With this cold weather," she smilingly urged, "it's too kind of you, my
dear child, to think of coming to see me; come along on the stove-couch
at once!--Bring some tea," she continued, addressing the servants, "and
make it as hot as it can be!"

"Isn't Hsueeh P'an at home?" Pao-yue having inquired: "He's like a horse
without a halter," Mrs. Hsueeh remarked with a sigh; "he's daily running
here and there and everywhere, and nothing can induce him to stay at
home one single day."

"Is sister (Pao Ch'ai) all right again?" asked Pao-yue. "Yes," replied
Mrs. Hsueeh, "she's well again. It was very kind of you two days ago to
again think of her, and send round to inquire after her. She's now in
there, and you can go and see her. It's warmer there than it's here; go
and sit with her inside, and, as soon as I've put everything away, I'll
come and join you and have a chat."

Pao-yue, upon hearing this, jumped down with alacrity from the
stove-couch, and walked up to the door of the inner room, where he saw
hanging a portiere somewhat the worse for use, made of red silk. Pao-yue
raised the portiere and making one step towards the interior, he found
Pao Ch'ai seated on the couch, busy over some needlework. On the top of
her head was gathered, and made into a knot, her chevelure, black as
lacquer, and glossy like pomade. She wore a honey-coloured wadded robe,
a rose-brown short-sleeved jacket, lined with the fur of the squirrel of
two colours: the "gold and silver;" and a jupe of leek-yellow silk. Her
whole costume was neither too new, neither too old, and displayed no
sign of extravagance.

Her lips, though not rouged, were naturally red; her eyebrows, though
not pencilled, were yet blue black; her face resembled a silver basin,
and her eyes, juicy plums. She was sparing in her words, chary in her
talk, so much so that people said that she posed as a simpleton. She was
quiet in the acquittal of her duties and scrupulous as to the proper
season for everything. "I practise simplicity," she would say of
herself.

"How are you? are you quite well again, sister?" inquired Pao-yue, as he
gazed at her; whereupon Pao Ch'ai raised her head, and perceiving Pao-yue
walk in, she got up at once and replied with a smile, "I'm all right
again; many thanks for your kindness in thinking of me."

While uttering this, she pressed him to take a seat on the stove-couch,
and as he sat down on the very edge of the couch, she told Ying Erh to
bring tea and asked likewise after dowager lady Chia and lady Feng. "And
are all the rest of the young ladies quite well?" she inquired.

Saying this she scrutinised Pao-yue, who she saw had a head-dress of
purplish-gold twisted threads, studded with precious stones. His
forehead was bound with a gold circlet, representing two dragons,
clasping a pearl. On his person he wore a light yellow, archery-sleeved
jacket, ornamented with rampant dragons, and lined with fur from the
ribs of the silver fox; and was clasped with a dark sash, embroidered
with different-coloured butterflies and birds. Round his neck was hung
an amulet, consisting of a clasp of longevity, a talisman of recorded
name, and, in addition to these, the precious jade which he had had in
his mouth at the time of his birth.

"I've daily heard every one speak of this jade," said Pao Ch'ai with a
smile, "but haven't, after all, had an opportunity of looking at it
closely, but anyhow to-day I must see it."

As she spoke, she drew near. Pao-yue himself approached, and taking it
from his neck, he placed it in Pao Ch'ai's hand. Pao Ch'ai held it in
her palm. It appeared to her very much like the egg of a bird,
resplendent as it was like a bright russet cloud; shiny and smooth like
variegated curd and covered with a net for the sake of protection.

Readers, you should know that this was the very block of useless stone
which had been on the Ta Huang Hills, and which had dropped into the
Ch'ing Keng cave, in a state of metamorphosis. A later writer expresses
his feelings in a satirical way as follows:

  Nue Wo's fusion of stones was e'er a myth inane,
  But from this myth hath sprung fiction still more insane!
  Lost is the subtle life, divine, and real!--gone!
  Assumed, mean subterfuge! foul bags of skin and bone!
  Fortune, when once adverse, how true! gold glows no more!
  In evil days, alas! the jade's splendour is o'er!
  Bones, white and bleached, in nameless hill-like mounds are flung,
  Bones once of youths renowned and maidens fair and young.

The rejected stone has in fact already given a record of the
circumstances of its transformation, and the inscription in seal
characters, engraved upon it by the bald-headed bonze, and below will
now be also appended a faithful representation of it; but its real size
is so very diminutive, as to allow of its being held by a child in his
mouth while yet unborn, that were it to have been drawn in its exact
proportions, the characters would, it is feared, have been so
insignificant in size, that the beholder would have had to waste much of
his eyesight, and it would besides have been no pleasant thing.

While therefore its shape has been adhered to, its size has unavoidably
been slightly enlarged, to admit of the reader being able, conveniently,
to peruse the inscription, even by very lamplight, and though he may be
under the influence of wine.

These explanations have been given to obviate any such sneering remarks
as: "What could be, pray, the size of the mouth of a child in his
mother's womb, and how could it grasp such a large and clumsy thing?"

On the face of the jade was written:

  Precious Gem of Spiritual Perception.
  If thou wilt lose me not and never forget me,
  Eternal life and constant luck will be with thee!

On the reverse was written:

  1 To exorcise evil spirits and the accessory visitations;
  2 To cure predestined sickness;
  3 To prognosticate weal and woe.

Pao Ch'ai having looked at the amulet, twisted it again to the face, and
scrutinising it closely, read aloud:

  If thou wilt lose me not and never forget me,
  Eternal life and constant luck will be with thee!

She perused these lines twice, and, turning round, she asked Ying Erh
laughingly: "Why don't you go and pour the tea? what are you standing
here like an idiot!"

"These two lines which I've heard," smiled Ying Erh, "would appear to
pair with the two lines on your necklet, miss!"

"What!" eagerly observed Pao-yue with a grin, when he caught these words,
"are there really eight characters too on your necklet, cousin? do let
me too see it."

"Don't listen to what she says," remarked Pao Ch'ai, "there are no
characters on it."

"My dear cousin," pleaded Pao-yue entreatingly, "how is it you've seen
mine?"

Pao Ch'ai was brought quite at bay by this remark of his, and she
consequently added, "There are also two propitious phrases engraved on
this charm, and that's why I wear it every day. Otherwise, what pleasure
would there be in carrying a clumsy thing."

As she spoke, she unfastened the button, and produced from inside her
crimson robe, a crystal-like locket, set with pearls and gems, and with
a brilliant golden fringe. Pao-yue promptly received it from her, and
upon minute examination, found that there were in fact four characters
on each side; the eight characters on both sides forming two sentences
of good omen. The similitude of the locket is likewise then given below.
On the face of the locket is written:

  "Part not from me and cast me not away;"

And on the reverse:

  "And youth, perennial freshness will display!"

Pao-yue examined the charm, and having also read the inscription twice
over aloud, and then twice again to himself, he said as he smiled, "Dear
cousin, these eight characters of yours form together with mine an
antithetical verse."

"They were presented to her," ventured Ying Erh, "by a mangy-pated
bonze, who explained that they should be engraved on a golden
trinket...."

Pao Ch'ai left her no time to finish what she wished to say, but
speedily called her to task for not going to bring the tea, and then
inquired of Pao-yue "Where he had come from?"

Pao-yue had, by this time, drawn quite close to Pao Ch'ai, and perceived
whiff after whiff of some perfume or other, of what kind he could not
tell. "What perfume have you used, my cousin," he forthwith asked, "to
fumigate your dresses with? I really don't remember smelling any
perfumery of the kind before."

"I'm very averse," replied Pao Ch'ai blandly, "to the odour of
fumigation; good clothes become impregnated with the smell of smoke."

"In that case," observed Pao-yue, "what scent is it?"

"Yes, I remember," Pao Ch'ai answered, after some reflection; "it's the
scent of the 'cold fragrance' pills which I took this morning."

"What are these cold fragrance pills," remarked Pao-yue smiling, "that
they have such a fine smell? Give me, cousin, a pill to try."

"Here you are with your nonsense again," Pao Ch'ai rejoined laughingly;
"is a pill a thing to be taken recklessly?"

She had scarcely finished speaking, when she heard suddenly some one
outside say, "Miss Lin is come;" and shortly Lin Tai-yue walked in in a
jaunty manner.

"Oh, I come at a wrong moment!" she exclaimed forthwith, smirking
significantly when she caught sight of Pao-yue.

Pao-yue and the rest lost no time in rising and offering her a seat,
whereupon Pao Ch'ai added with a smile, "How can you say such things?"

"Had I known sooner," continued Tai-yue, "that he was here, I would have
kept away."

"I can't fathom this meaning of yours," protested Pao Ch'ai.

"If one comes," Tai-yue urged smiling, "then all come, and when one
doesn't come, then no one comes. Now were he to come to-day, and I to
come to-morrow, wouldn't there be, by a division of this kind, always
some one with you every day? and in this way, you wouldn't feel too
lonely, nor too crowded. How is it, cousin, that you didn't understand
what I meant to imply?"

"Is it snowing?" inquired Pao-yue, upon noticing that she wore a cloak
made of crimson camlet, buttoning in front.

"It has been snowing for some time," ventured the matrons, who were
standing below. "Fetch my wrapper!" Pao-yue remarked, and Tai-yue readily
laughed. "Am I not right? I come, and, of course, he must go at once."

"Did I ever mention that I was going?" questioned Pao-yue; "I only wish
it brought to have it ready when I want it."

"It's a snowy day," consequently remarked Pao-yue's nurse, dame Li, "and
we must also look to the time, but you had better remain here and amuse
yourself with your cousin. Your aunt has, in there, got ready tea and
fruits. I'll tell the waiting-maid to go and fetch your wrapper and the
boys to return home." Pao-yue assented, and nurse Li left the room and
told the boys that they were at liberty to go.

By this time Mrs. Hsueeh had prepared tea and several kinds of nice
things and kept them all to partake of those delicacies. Pao-yue, having
spoken highly of some goose feet and ducks' tongues he had tasted some
days before, at his eldest sister-in-law's, Mrs. Yu's, "aunt" Hsueeh
promptly produced several dishes of the same kind, made by herself, and
gave them to Pao-yue to try. "With a little wine," added Pao-yue with a
smile, "they would be first rate."

Mrs. Hsueeh thereupon bade the servants fetch some wine of the best
quality; but dame Li came forward and remonstrated. "My lady," she said,
"never mind the wine."

Pao-yue smilingly pleaded: "My nurse, I'll take just one cup and no
more."

"It's no use," nurse Li replied, "were your grandmother and mother
present, I wouldn't care if you drank a whole jar. I remember the day
when I turned my eyes away but for a moment, and some ignorant fool or
other, merely with the view of pandering for your favour, gave you only
a drop of wine to drink, and how this brought reproaches upon me for a
couple of days. You don't know, my lady, you have no idea of his
disposition! it's really dreadful; and when he has had a little wine he
shows far more temper. On days when her venerable ladyship is in high
spirits, she allows him to have his own way about drinking, but he's not
allowed to have wine on any and every day; and why should I have to
suffer inside and all for nothing at all?"

"You antiquated thing!" replied Mrs. Hsueeh laughing, "set your mind at
ease, and go and drink your own wine! I won't let him have too much, and
should even the old lady say anything, let the fault be mine."

Saying this, she asked a waiting-maid to take nurse Li along with her
and give her also a glass of wine so as to keep out the cold air.

When nurse Li heard these words, she had no alternative but to go for a
time with all the others and have some wine to drink.

"The wine need not be warmed: I prefer it cold!" Pao-yue went on to
suggest meanwhile.

"That won't do," remonstrated Mrs. Hsueeh; "cold wine will make your hand
tremble when you write."

"You have," interposed Pao Ch'ai smiling, "the good fortune, cousin
Pao-yue, of having daily opportunities of acquiring a knowledge of every
kind of subject, and yet don't you know that the properties of wine are
mostly heating? If you drink wine warm, its effects soon dispel, but if
you drink it cold, it at once congeals in you; and as upon your
intestines devolves the warming of it, how can you not derive any harm?
and won't you yet from this time change this habit of yours? leave off
at once drinking that cold wine."

Pao-yue finding that the words he had heard contained a good deal of
sense, speedily put down the cold wine, and having asked them to warm
it, he at length drank it.

Tai-yue was bent upon cracking melon seeds, saying nothing but simply
pursing up her lips and smiling, when, strange coincidence, Hsueeh Yen,
Tai-yue's waiting-maid, walked in and handed her mistress a small
hand-stove.

"Who told you to bring it?" ascertained Tai-yue grinningly. "I'm sorry to
have given whoever it is the trouble; I'm obliged to her. But did she
ever imagine that I would freeze to death?"

"Tzu Chuan was afraid," replied Hsueeh Yen, "that you would, miss, feel
cold, and she asked me to bring it over."

Tai-yue took it over and held it in her lap. "How is it," she smiled,
"that you listen to what she tells you, but that you treat what I say,
day after day, as so much wind blowing past your ears! How is it that
you at once do what she bids you, with even greater alacrity than you
would an imperial edict?"

When Pao-yue heard this, he felt sure in his mind that Tai-yue was
availing herself of this opportunity to make fun of him, but he made no
remark, merely laughing to himself and paying no further notice. Pao
Ch'ai, again, knew full well that this habit was a weak point with
Tai-yue, so she too did not go out of her way to heed what she said.

"You've always been delicate and unable to stand the cold," interposed
"aunt" Hsueeh, "and is it not a kind attention on their part to have
thought of you?"

"You don't know, aunt, how it really stands," responded Tai-yue
smilingly; "fortunately enough, it was sent to me here at your quarters;
for had it been in any one else's house, wouldn't it have been a slight
upon them? Is it forsooth nice to think that people haven't so much as a
hand-stove, and that one has fussily to be sent over from home? People
won't say that the waiting-maids are too officious, but will imagine
that I'm in the habit of behaving in this offensive fashion."

"You're far too punctilious," remarked Mrs. Hsueeh, "as to entertain such
notions! No such ideas as these crossed my mind just now."

While they were conversing, Pao-yue had taken so much as three cups of
wine, and nurse Li came forward again to prevent him from having any
more. Pao-yue was just then in a state of exultation and excitement, (a
state) enhanced by the conversation and laughter of his cousins, so that
was he ready to agree to having no more! But he was constrained in a
humble spirit to entreat for permission. "My dear nurse," he implored,
"I'll just take two more cups and then have no more."

"You'd better be careful," added nurse Li, "your father is at home
to-day, and see that you're ready to be examined in your lessons."

When Pao-yue heard this mention, his spirits at once sank within him, and
gently putting the wine aside, he dropped his head upon his breast.

Tai-yue promptly remonstrated. "You've thrown cold water," she said,
"over the spirits of the whole company; why, if uncle should ask to see
you, well, say that aunt Hsueeh detained you. This old nurse of yours has
been drinking, and again makes us the means of clearing her muddled
head!"

While saying this, she gave Pao-yue a big nudge with the intent of
stirring up his spirits, adding, as she addressed him in a low tone of
voice: "Don't let us heed that old thing, but mind our own enjoyment."

Dame Li also knew very well Tai-yue's disposition, and therefore
remarked: "Now, Miss Lin, don't you urge him on; you should after all,
give him good advice, as he may, I think, listen to a good deal of what
you say to him."

"Why should I urge him on?" rejoined Lin Tai-yue, with a sarcastic smile,
"nor will I trouble myself to give him advice. You, old lady, are far
too scrupulous! Old lady Chia has also time after time given him wine,
and if he now takes a cup or two more here, at his aunt's, lady Hsueeh's
house, there's no harm that I can see. Is it perhaps, who knows, that
aunt is a stranger in this establishment, and that we have in fact no
right to come over here to see her?"

Nurse Li was both vexed and amused by the words she had just heard.
"Really," she observed, "every remark this girl Lin utters is sharper
than a razor! I didn't say anything much!"

Pao Ch'ai too could not suppress a smile, and as she pinched Tai-yue's
cheek, she exclaimed, "Oh the tongue of this frowning girl! one can
neither resent what it says, nor yet listen to it with any
gratification!"

"Don't be afraid!" Mrs. Hsueeh went on to say, "don't be afraid; my son,
you've come to see me, and although I've nothing good to give you, you
mustn't, through fright, let the trifle you've taken lie heavy on your
stomach, and thus make me uneasy; but just drink at your pleasure, and
as much as you like, and let the blame fall on my shoulders. What's
more, you can stay to dinner with me, and then go home; or if you do get
tipsy, you can sleep with me, that's all."

She thereupon told the servants to heat some more wine. "I'll come," she
continued, "and keep you company while you have two or three cups, after
which we'll have something to eat!"

It was only after these assurances that Pao-yue's spirits began at
length, once more to revive, and dame Li then directed the waiting-maids
what to do. "You remain here," she enjoined, "and mind, be diligent
while I go home and change; when I'll come back again. Don't allow him,"
she also whispered to "aunt" Hsueeh, "to have all his own way and drink
too much."

Having said this, she betook herself back to her quarters; and during
this while, though there were two or three nurses in attendance, they
did not concern themselves with what was going on. As soon as they saw
that nurse Li had left, they likewise all quietly slipped out, at the
first opportunity they found, while there remained but two
waiting-maids, who were only too glad to curry favour with Pao-yue. But
fortunately "aunt" Hsueeh, by much coaxing and persuading, only let him
have a few cups, and the wine being then promptly cleared away, pickled
bamboo shoots and chicken-skin soup were prepared, of which Pao-yue drank
with relish several bowls full, eating besides more than half a bowl of
finest rice congee.

By this time, Hsueeh Pao Ch'ai and Lin Tai-yue had also finished their
repast; and when Pao-yue had drunk a few cups of strong tea, Mrs. Hsueeh
felt more easy in her mind. Hsueeh Yen and the others, three or four of
them in all, had also had their meal, and came in to wait upon them.

"Are you now going or not?" inquired Tai-yue of Pao-yue.

Pao-yue looked askance with his drowsy eyes. "If you want to go," he
observed, "I'll go with you."

Tai-yue hearing this, speedily rose. "We've been here nearly the whole
day," she said, "and ought to be going back."

As she spoke the two of them bade good-bye, and the waiting-maids at
once presented a hood to each of them.

Pao-yue readily lowered his head slightly and told a waiting-maid to put
it on. The girl promptly took the hood, made of deep red cloth, and
shaking it out of its folds, she put it on Pao-yue's head.

"That will do," hastily exclaimed Pao-yue. "You stupid thing! gently a
bit; is it likely you've never seen any one put one on before? let me do
it myself."

"Come over here, and I'll put it on for you," suggested Tai-yue, as she
stood on the edge of the couch. Pao-yue eagerly approached her, and
Tai-yue carefully kept the cap, to which his hair was bound, fast down,
and taking the hood she rested its edge on the circlet round his
forehead. She then raised the ball of crimson velvet, which was as large
as a walnut, and put it in such a way that, as it waved tremulously, it
should appear outside the hood. These arrangements completed she cast a
look for a while at what she had done. "That's right now," she added,
"throw your wrapper over you!"

When Pao-yue caught these words, he eventually took the wrapper and threw
it over his shoulders.

"None of your nurses," hurriedly interposed aunt Hsueeh, "are yet come,
so you had better wait a while."

"Why should we wait for them?" observed Pao-yue. "We have the
waiting-maids to escort us, and surely they should be enough."

Mrs. Hsueeh finding it difficult to set her mind at ease deputed two
married women to accompany the two cousins; and after they had both
expressed (to these women) their regret at having troubled them, they
came straightway to dowager lady Chia's suite of apartments.

Her venerable ladyship had not, as yet, had her evening repast. Hearing
that they had been at Mrs. Hsueeh's, she was extremely pleased; but
noticing that Pao-yue had had some wine, she gave orders that he should
be taken to his room, and put to bed, and not be allowed to come out
again.

"Do take good care of him," she therefore enjoined the servants, and
when suddenly she bethought herself of Pao-yue's attendants, "How is it,"
she at once inquired of them all, "that I don't see nurse Li here?"

They did not venture to tell her the truth, that she had gone home, but
simply explained that she had come in a few moments back, and that they
thought she must have again gone out on some business or other.

"She's better off than your venerable ladyship," remarked Pao-yue,
turning round and swaying from side to side. "Why then ask after her?
Were I rid of her, I believe I might live a little longer."

While uttering these words, he reached the door of his bedroom, where he
saw pen and ink laid out on the writing table.

"That's nice," exclaimed Ch'ing Wen, as she came to meet him with a
smile on her face, "you tell me to prepare the ink for you, but though
when you get up, you were full of the idea of writing, you only wrote
three characters, when you discarded the pencil, and ran away, fooling
me, by making me wait the whole day! Come now at once and exhaust all
this ink before you're let off."

Pao-yue then remembered what had taken place in the morning. "Where are
the three characters I wrote?" he consequently inquired, smiling.

"Why this man is tipsy," remarked Ch'ing Wen sneeringly. "As you were
going to the other mansion, you told me to stick them over the door. I
was afraid lest any one else should spoil them, as they were being
pasted, so I climbed up a high ladder and was ever so long in putting
them up myself; my hands are even now numb with cold."

"Oh I forgot all about it," replied Pao-yue grinning, "if your hands are
cold, come and I'll rub them warm for you."

Promptly stretching out his hand, he took those of Ch'ing Wen in his,
and the two of them looked at the three characters, which he recently
had written, and which were pasted above the door. In a short while,
Tai-yue came.

"My dear cousin," Pao-yue said to her smilingly, "tell me without any
prevarication which of the three characters is the best written?"

Tai-yue raised her head and perceived the three characters: Red, Rue,
Hall. "They're all well done," she rejoined, with a smirk, "How is it
you've written them so well? By and bye you must also write a tablet for
me."

"Are you again making fun of me?" asked Pao-yue smiling; "what about
sister Hsi Jen?" he went on to inquire.

Ch'ing Wen pouted her lips, pointing towards the stove-couch in the
inner room, and, on looking in, Pao-yue espied Hsi Jen fast asleep in her
daily costume.

"Well," Pao-yue observed laughing, "there's no harm in it, but its rather
early to sleep. When I was having my early meal, on the other side," he
proceeded, speaking to Ch'ing Wen, "there was a small dish of dumplings,
with bean-curd outside; and as I thought you would like to have some, I
asked Mrs. Yu for them, telling her that I would keep them, and eat them
in the evening; I told some one to bring them over, but have you
perchance seen them?"

"Be quick and drop that subject," suggested Ch'ing Wen; "as soon as they
were brought over, I at once knew they were intended for me; as I had
just finished my meal, I put them by in there, but when nurse Li came
she saw them. 'Pao-yue,' she said, 'is not likely to eat them, so I'll
take them and give them to my grandson.' And forthwith she bade some one
take them over to her home."

While she was speaking, Hsi Hsueeh brought in tea, and Pao-yue pressed his
cousin Lin to have a cup.

"Miss Lin has gone long ago," observed all of them, as they burst out
laughing, "and do you offer her tea?"

Pao-yue drank about half a cup, when he also suddenly bethought himself
of some tea, which had been brewed in the morning. "This morning," he
therefore inquired of Hsi Hsueeh, "when you made a cup of maple-dew tea,
I told you that that kind of tea requires brewing three or four times
before its colour appears; and how is that you now again bring me this
tea?"

"I did really put it by," answered Hsi Hsueeh, "but nurse Li came and
drank it, and then went off."

Pao-yue upon hearing this, dashed the cup he held in his hand on the
ground, and as it broke into small fragments, with a crash, it spattered
Hsi Hsueeh's petticoat all over.

"Of whose family is she the mistress?" inquired Pao-yue of Hsi Hsueeh, as
he jumped up, "that you all pay such deference to her. I just simply had
a little of her milk, when I was a brat, and that's all; and now she has
got into the way of thinking herself more high and mighty than even the
heads of the family! She should be packed off, and then we shall all
have peace and quiet."

Saying this, he was bent upon going, there and then, to tell dowager
lady Chia to have his nurse driven away.

Hsi Jen was really not asleep, but simply feigning, with the idea, when
Pao-yue came, to startle him in play. At first, when she heard him speak
of writing, and inquire after the dumplings, she did not think it
necessary to get up, but when he flung the tea-cup on the floor, and got
into a temper, she promptly jumped up and tried to appease him, and to
prevent him by coaxing from carrying out his threat.

A waiting-maid sent by dowager lady Chia came in, meanwhile, to ask what
was the matter.

"I had just gone to pour tea," replied Hsi Jen, without the least
hesitation, "and I slipped on the snow and fell, while the cup dropped
from my hand and broke. Your decision to send her away is good," she
went on to advise Pao-yue, "and we are all willing to go also; and why
not avail yourself of this opportunity to dismiss us in a body? It will
be for our good, and you too on the other hand, needn't perplex yourself
about not getting better people to come and wait on you!"

When Pao-yue heard this taunt, he had at length not a word to say, and
supported by Hsi Jen and the other attendants on to the couch, they
divested him of his clothes. But they failed to understand the drift of
what Pao-yue kept on still muttering, and all they could make out was an
endless string of words; but his eyes grew heavier and drowsier, and
they forthwith waited upon him until he went to sleep; when Hsi Jen
unclasped the jade of spiritual perception, and rolling it up in a
handkerchief, she lay it under the mattress, with the idea that when he
put it on the next day it should not chill his neck.

Pao-yue fell sound asleep the moment he lay his head on the pillow. By
this time nurse Li and the others had come in, but when they heard that
Pao-yue was tipsy, they too did not venture to approach, but gently made
inquiries as to whether he was asleep or not. On hearing that he was,
they took their departure with their minds more at ease.

The next morning the moment Pao-yue awoke, some one came in to tell him
that young Mr. Jung, living in the mansion on the other side, had
brought Ch'in Chung to pay him a visit.

Pao-yue speedily went out to greet them and to take them over to pay
their respects to dowager lady Chia. Her venerable ladyship upon
perceiving that Ch'in Chung, with his handsome countenance, and his
refined manners, would be a fit companion for Pao-yue in his studies,
felt extremely delighted at heart; and having readily detained him to
tea, and kept him to dinner, she went further and directed a servant to
escort him to see madame Wang and the rest of the family.

With the fond regard of the whole household for Mrs. Ch'in, they were,
when they saw what a kind of person Ch'in Chung was, so enchanted with
him, that at the time of his departure, they all had presents to give
him; even dowager lady Chia herself presented him with a purse and a
golden image of the God of Learning, with a view that it should incite
him to study and harmony.

"Your house," she further advised him, "is far off, and when it's cold
or hot, it would be inconvenient for you to come all that way, so you
had better come and live over here with me. You'll then be always with
your cousin Pao-yue, and you won't be together, in your studies, with
those fellow-pupils of yours who have no idea what progress means."

Ch'in Chung made a suitable answer to each one of her remarks, and on
his return home he told everything to his father.

His father, Ch'in Pang-yeh, held at present the post of Secretary in the
Peking Field Force, and was well-nigh seventy. His wife had died at an
early period, and as she left no issue, he adopted a son and a daughter
from a foundling asylum.

But who would have thought it, the boy also died, and there only
remained the girl, known as Ko Ch'ing in her infancy, who when she grew
up, was beautiful in face and graceful in manners, and who by reason of
some relationship with the Chia family, was consequently united by the
ties of marriage (to one of the household).

Ch'in Pang-yeh was in his fiftieth year when he at length got this son.
As his tutor had the previous year left to go south, he remained at home
keeping up his former lessons; and (his father) had been just thinking
of talking over the matter with his relatives of the Chia family, and
sending his son to the private school, when, as luck would have it, this
opportunity of meeting Pao-yue presented itself.

Knowing besides that the family school was under the direction of the
venerable scholar Chia Tai-ju, and hoping that by joining his class,
(his son) might advance in knowledge and by these means reap reputation,
he was therefore intensely gratified. The only drawbacks were that his
official emoluments were scanty, and that both the eyes of everyone in
the other establishment were set upon riches and honours, so that he
could not contribute anything short of the amount (given by others); but
his son's welfare throughout life was a serious consideration, and he,
needless to say, had to scrape together from the East and to collect
from the West; and making a parcel, with all deference, of twenty-four
taels for an introduction present, he came along with Ch'in Chung to
Tai-ju's house to pay their respects. But he had to wait subsequently
until Pao-yue could fix on an auspicious date on which they could
together enter the school.

As for what happened after they came to school, the next chapter will
divulge.




CHAPTER IX.

  Chia Cheng gives good advice to his wayward son.
  Li Kuei receives a reprimand.
  Chia Jui and Li Kuei rebuke the obstinate youths!
  Ming Yen causes trouble in the school-room.


But to return to our story. Mr. Ch'in, the father, and Ch'in Chung, his
son, only waited until the receipt, by the hands of a servant, of a
letter from the Chia family about the date on which they were to go to
school. Indeed, Pao-yue was only too impatient that he and Ch'in Chung
should come together, and, without loss of time, he fixed upon two days
later as the day upon which they were definitely to begin their studies,
and he despatched a servant with a letter to this effect.

On the day appointed, as soon as it was daylight, Pao-yue turned out of
bed. Hsi Jen had already by that time got books, pencils and all writing
necessaries in perfect readiness, and was sitting on the edge of the bed
in a moping mood; but as soon as she saw Pao-yue approach, she was
constrained to wait upon him in his toilette and ablutions.

Pao-yue, noticing how despondent she was, made it a point to address her.
"My dear sister," he said, "how is it you aren't again yourself? Is it
likely that you bear me a grudge for being about to go to school,
because when I leave you, you'll all feel dull?"

Hsi Jen smiled. "What an ideal" she replied. "Study is a most excellent
thing, and without it a whole lifetime is a mere waste, and what good
comes in the long run? There's only one thing, which is simply that when
engaged in reading your books, you should set your mind on your books;
and that you should think of home when not engaged in reading. Whatever
you do, don't romp together with them, for were you to meet our master,
your father, it will be no joke! Although it's asserted that a scholar
must strain every nerve to excel, yet it's preferable that the tasks
should be somewhat fewer, as, in the first place, when one eats too
much, one cannot digest it; and, in the second place, good health must
also be carefully attended to. This is my view on the subject, and you
should at all times consider it in practice."

While Hsi Jen gave utterance to a sentence, Pao-yue nodded his head in
sign of approval of that sentence. Hsi Jen then went on to speak. "I've
also packed up," she continued, "your long pelisse, and handed it to the
pages to take it over; so mind, when it's cold in the school-room,
please remember to put on this extra clothing, for it's not like home,
where you have people to look after you. The foot-stove and hand-stove,
I've also sent over; and urge that pack of lazy-bones to attend to their
work, for if you say nothing, they will be so engrossed in their
frolics, that they'll be loth to move, and let you, all for nothing,
take a chill and ruin your constitution."

"Compose your mind," replied Pao-yue; "when I go out, I know well enough
how to attend to everything my own self. But you people shouldn't remain
in this room, and mope yourselves to death; and it would be well if you
would often go over to cousin Lin's for a romp."

While saying this, he had completed his toilette, and Hsi Jen pressed
him to go and wish good morning to dowager lady Chia, Chia Cheng, madame
Wang, and the other members of the family.

Pao-yue, after having gone on to give a few orders to Ch'ing Wen and She
Yueh, at length left his apartments, and coming over, paid his obeisance
to dowager lady Chia. Her venerable Ladyship had likewise, as a matter
of course, a few recommendations to make to him, which ended, he next
went and greeted madame Wang; and leaving again her quarters, he came
into the library to wish Chia Cheng good morning.

As it happened, Chia Cheng had on this day returned home at an early
hour, and was, at this moment, in the library, engaged in a friendly
chat with a few gentlemen, who were family companions. Suddenly
perceiving Pao-yue come in to pay his respects, and report that he was
about to go to school, Chia Cheng gave a sardonic smile. "If you do
again," he remarked, "make allusions to the words going to school,
you'll make even me blush to death with shame! My advice to you is that
you should after all go your own way and play; that's the best thing for
you; and mind you don't pollute with dirt this floor by standing here,
and soil this door of mine by leaning against it!"

The family companions stood up and smilingly expostulated.

"Venerable Sir," they pleaded, "why need you be so down upon him? Our
worthy brother is this day going to school, and may in two or three
years be able to display his abilities and establish his reputation. He
will, beyond doubt, not behave like a child, as he did in years gone
past. But as the time for breakfast is also drawing nigh, you should,
worthy brother, go at once."

When these words had been spoken, two among them, who were advanced in
years, readily took Pao-yue by the hand, and led him out of the library.

"Who are in attendance upon Pao-yue?" Chia Cheng having inquired, he
heard a suitable reply, "We, Sir!" given from outside; and three or four
sturdy fellows entered at an early period and fell on one knee, and
bowed and paid their obeisance.

When Chia Cheng came to scrutinise who they were, and he recognised Li
Kuei, the son of Pao-yue's nurse, he addressed himself to him. "You
people," he said, "remain waiting upon him the whole day long at school,
but what books has he after all read? Books indeed! why, he has read and
filled his brains with a lot of trashy words and nonsensical phrases,
and learnt some ingenious way of waywardness. Wait till I have a little
leisure, and I'll set to work, first and foremost, and flay your skin
off, and then settle accounts with that good-for-nothing!"

This threat so terrified Li Kuei that he hastily fell on both his knees,
pulled off his hat, knocked his head on the ground, and gave vent to
repeated assenting utterances: "Oh, quite so, Sir! Our elder brother Mr.
Pao has," he continued, "already read up to the third book of the Book
of Odes, up to where there's something or other like: 'Yiu, Yiu, the
deer bleat; the lotus leaves and duckweed.' Your servant wouldn't
presume to tell a lie!"

As he said this, the whole company burst out into a boisterous fit of
laughter, and Chia Cheng himself could not also contain his countenance
and had to laugh. "Were he even," he observed, "to read thirty books of
the Book of Odes, it would be as much an imposition upon people and no
more, as (when the thief) who, in order to steal the bell, stops up his
own ears! You go and present my compliments to the gentleman in the
schoolroom, and tell him, from my part, that the whole lot of Odes and
old writings are of no use, as they are subjects for empty show; and
that he should, above all things, take the Four Books, and explain them
to him, from first to last, and make him know them all thoroughly by
heart,--that this is the most important thing!"

Li Kuei signified his obedience with all promptitude, and perceiving
that Chia Cheng had nothing more to say, he retired out of the room.

During this while, Pao-yue had been standing all alone outside in the
court, waiting quietly with suppressed voice, and when they came out he
at once walked away in their company.

Li Kuei and his companions observed as they shook their clothes, "Did
you, worthy brother, hear what he said that he would first of all flay
our skins off! People's servants acquire some respectability from the
master whom they serve, but we poor fellows fruitlessly wait upon you,
and are beaten and blown up in the bargain. It would be well if we were,
from henceforward, to be treated with a certain amount of regard."

Pao-yue smiled, "Dear Brother," he added, "don't feel aggrieved; I'll
invite you to come round to-morrow!"

"My young ancestor," replied Li Kuei, "who presumes to look forward to
an invitation? all I entreat you is to listen to one or two words I have
to say, that's all."

As they talked they came over once more to dowager lady Chia's on this
side.

Ch'in Chung had already arrived, and the old lady was first having a
chat with him. Forthwith the two of them exchanged salutations, and took
leave of her ladyship; but Pao-yue, suddenly remembering that he had not
said good-bye to Tai-yue, promptly betook himself again to Tai-yue's
quarters to do so.

Tai-yue was, at this time, below the window, facing the mirror, and
adjusting her toilette. Upon hearing Pao-yue mention that he was on his
way to school, she smiled and remarked, "That's right! you're now going
to school and you'll be sure to reach the lunar palace and pluck the
olea fragrans; but I can't go along with you."

"My dear cousin," rejoined Pao-yue, "wait for me to come out from school,
before you have your evening meal; wait also until I come to prepare the
cosmetic of rouge."

After a protracted chat, he at length tore himself away and took his
departure.

"How is it," interposed Tai-yue, as she once again called out to him and
stopped him, "that you don't go and bid farewell to your cousin Pao
Ch'ai?"

Pao-yue smiled, and saying not a word by way of reply he straightway
walked to school, accompanied by Ch'in Chung.

This public school, which it must be noticed was also not far from his
quarters, had been originally instituted by the founder of the
establishment, with the idea that should there be among the young
fellows of his clan any who had not the means to engage a tutor, they
should readily be able to enter this class for the prosecution of their
studies; that all those of the family who held official position should
all give (the institution) pecuniary assistance, with a view to meet the
expenses necessary for allowances to the students; and that they were to
select men advanced in years and possessed of virtue to act as tutors of
the family school.

The two of them, Ch'in Chung and Pao-yue, had now entered the class, and
after they and the whole number of their schoolmates had made each
other's acquaintance, their studies were commenced. Ever since this
time, these two were wont to come together, go together, get up
together, and sit together, till they became more intimate and close.
Besides, dowager lady Chia got very fond of Ch'in Chung, and would again
and again keep him to stay with them for three and five days at a time,
treating him as if he were one of her own great-grandsons. Perceiving
that in Ch'in Chung's home there was not much in the way of sufficiency,
she also helped him in clothes and other necessaries; and scarcely had
one or two months elapsed before Ch'in Chung got on friendly terms with
every one in the Jung mansion.

Pao-yue was, however, a human being who could not practise contentment
and observe propriety; and as his sole delight was to have every caprice
gratified, he naturally developed a craving disposition. "We two, you
and I, are," he was also wont secretly to tell Ch'in Chung, "of the same
age, and fellow-scholars besides, so that there's no need in the future
to pay any regard to our relationship of uncle and nephew; and we should
treat each other as brothers or friends, that's all."

Ch'in Chung at first (explained that) he could not be so presumptuous;
but as Pao-yue would not listen to any such thing, but went on to address
him as brother and to call him by his style Ch'ing Ch'ing, he had
likewise himself no help, but to begin calling him, at random, anything
and anyhow.

There were, it is true, a large number of pupils in this school, but
these consisted of the sons and younger brothers of that same clan, and
of several sons and nephews of family connections. The proverb
appositely describes that there are nine species of dragons, and that
each species differs; and it goes of course without saying that in a
large number of human beings there were dragons and snakes, confusedly
admixed, and that creatures of a low standing were included.

Ever since the arrival of the two young fellows, Ch'in Chung and Pao-yue,
both of whom were in appearance as handsome as budding flowers, and
they, on the one hand, saw how modest and genial Ch'in Chung was, how he
blushed before he uttered a word, how he was timid and demure like a
girl, and on the other hand, how that Pao-yue was naturally proficient in
abasing and demeaning himself, how he was so affable and good-natured,
considerate in his temperament and so full of conversation, and how that
these two were, in consequence, on such terms of intimate friendship, it
was, in fact, no matter of surprise that the whole company of
fellow-students began to foster envious thoughts, that they, behind
their backs, passed on their account, this one one disparaging remark
and that one another, and that they insinuated slanderous lies against
them, which extended inside as well as outside the school-room.

Indeed, after Hsueeh P'an had come over to take up his quarters in madame
Wang's suite of apartments, he shortly came to hear of the existence of
a family school, and that this school was mainly attended by young
fellows of tender years, and inordinate ideas were suddenly aroused in
him. While he therefore fictitiously gave out that he went to school,
[he was as irregular in his attendance as the fisherman] who catches
fish for three days, and suns his nets for the next two; simply
presenting his school-fee gift to Chia Tai-jui and making not the least
progress in his studies; his sole dream being to knit a number of
familiar friendships. Who would have thought it, there were in this
school young pupils, who, in their greed to obtain money, clothes and
eatables from Hsueeh P'an, allowed themselves to be cajoled by him, and
played tricks upon; but on this topic, it is likewise superfluous to
dilate at any length.

There were also two lovable young scholars, relatives of what branch of
the family is not known, and whose real surnames and names have also not
been ascertained, who, by reason of their good and winsome looks, were,
by the pupils in the whole class, given two nicknames, to one that of
"Hsiang Lin," "Fragrant Love," and to the other "Yue Ai," "Precious
Affection." But although every one entertained feelings of secret
admiration for them, and had the wish to take liberties with the young
fellows, they lived, nevertheless, one and all, in such terror of Hsueeh
P'an's imperious influence, that they had not the courage to come
forward and interfere with them.

As soon as Ch'in Chung and Pao-yue had, at this time, come to school, and
they had made the acquaintance of these two fellow-pupils, they too
could not help becoming attached to them and admiring them, but as they
also came to know that they were great friends of Hsueeh P'an, they did
not, in consequence, venture to treat them lightly, or to be unseemly in
their behaviour towards them. Hsiang Lin and Yue Ai both kept to
themselves the same feelings, which they fostered for Ch'in Chung and
Pao-yue, and to this reason is to be assigned the fact that though these
four persons nurtured fond thoughts in their hearts there was however no
visible sign of them. Day after day, each one of them would, during
school hours, sit in four distinct places: but their eight eyes were
secretly linked together; and, while indulging either in innuendoes or
in double entendres, their hearts, in spite of the distance between
them, reflected the whole number of their thoughts.

But though their outward attempts were devoted to evade the detection of
other people's eyes, it happened again that, while least expected,
several sly lads discovered the real state of affairs, with the result
that the whole school stealthily frowned their eyebrows at them, winked
their eyes at them, or coughed at them, or raised their voices at them;
and these proceedings were, in fact, not restricted to one single day.

As luck would have it, on this day Tai-jui was, on account of business,
compelled to go home; and having left them as a task no more than a
heptameter line for an antithetical couplet, explaining that they should
find a sentence to rhyme, and that the following day when he came back,
he would set them their lessons, he went on to hand the affairs
connected with the class to his elder grandson, Chia Jui, whom he asked
to take charge.

Wonderful to say Hsueeh P'an had of late not frequented school very
often, not even so much as to answer the roll, so that Ch'in Chung
availed himself of his absence to ogle and smirk with Hsiang Lin; and
these two pretending that they had to go out, came into the back court
for a chat.

"Does your worthy father at home mind your having any friends?" Ch'in
Chung was the first to ask. But this sentence was scarcely ended, when
they heard a sound of coughing coming from behind. Both were taken much
aback, and, speedily turning their heads round to see, they found that
it was a fellow-scholar of theirs, called Chin Jung.

Hsiang Lin was naturally of somewhat hasty temperament, so that with
shame and anger mutually impelling each other, he inquired of him,
"What's there to cough at? Is it likely you wouldn't have us speak to
each other?"

"I don't mind your speaking," Chin Jung observed laughing; "but would
you perchance not have me cough? I'll tell you what, however; if you
have anything to say, why not utter it in intelligible language? Were
you allowed to go on in this mysterious manner, what strange doings
would you be up to? But I have sure enough found you out, so what's the
need of still prevaricating? But if you will, first of all, let me
partake of a share in your little game, you and I can hold our tongue
and utter not a word. If not, why the whole school will begin to turn
the matter over."

At these words, Ch'in Chung and Hsiang Lin were so exasperated that
their blood rushed up to their faces. "What have you found out?" they
hastily asked.

"What I have now detected," replied Chin Jung smiling, "is the plain
truth!" and saying this he went on to clap his hands and to call out
with a loud voice as he laughed: "They have moulded some nice well-baked
cakes, won't you fellows come and buy one to eat!" (These two have been
up to larks, won't you come and have some fun!)

Both Ch'in Chung and Hsiang Lin felt resentful as well as fuming with
rage, and with hurried step they went in, in search of Chia Jui, to whom
they reported Chin Jung, explaining that Chin Jung had insulted them
both, without any rhyme or reason.

The fact is that this Chia Jui was, in an extraordinary degree, a man
with an eye to the main chance, and devoid of any sense of propriety.
His wont was at school to take advantage of public matters to serve his
private interest, and to bring pressure upon his pupils with the intent
that they should regale him. While subsequently he also lent his
countenance to Hsueeh P'an, scheming to get some money or eatables out of
him, he left him entirely free to indulge in disorderly behaviour; and
not only did he not go out of his way to hold him in check, but, on the
contrary, he encouraged him, infamous though he was already, to become a
bully, so as to curry favour with him.

But this Hsueeh P'an was, by nature, gifted with a fickle disposition;
to-day, he would incline to the east, and to-morrow to the west, so that
having recently obtained new friends, he put Hsiang Lin and Yue Ai aside.
Chin Jung too was at one time an intimate friend of his, but ever since
he had acquired the friendship of the two lads, Hsiang Lin and Yue Ai, he
forthwith deposed Chin Jung. Of late, he had already come to look down
upon even Hsiang Lin and Yue Ai, with the result that Chia Jui as well
was deprived of those who could lend him support, or stand by him; but
he bore Hsueeh P'an no grudge, for wearying with old friends, as soon as
he found new ones, but felt angry that Hsiang Lin and Yue Ai had not put
in a word on his behalf with Hsueeh P'an. Chia Jui, Chin Jung and in fact
the whole crowd of them were, for this reason, just harbouring a jealous
grudge against these two, so that when he saw Ch'in Chung and Hsiang Lin
come on this occasion and lodge a complaint against Chin Jung, Chia Jui
readily felt displeasure creep into his heart; and, although he did not
venture to call Ch'in Chung to account, he nevertheless made an example
of Hsiang Lin. And instead (of taking his part), he called him a
busybody and denounced him in much abusive language, with the result
that Hsiang Lin did not, contrariwise, profit in any way, but brought
displeasure upon himself. Even Ch'in Chung grumbled against the
treatment, as each of them resumed their places.

Chin Jung became still more haughty, and wagging his head and smacking
his lips, he gave vent to many more abusive epithets; but as it happened
that they also reached Yue Ai's ears, the two of them, though seated
apart, began an altercation in a loud tone of voice.

Chin Jung, with obstinate pertinacity, clung to his version. "Just a
short while back," he said, "I actually came upon them, as they were
indulging in demonstrations of intimate friendship in the back court.
These two had resolved to be one in close friendship, and were eloquent
in their protestations, mindful only in persistently talking their
trash, but they were not aware of the presence of another person."

But his language had, contrary to all expectations, given, from the very
first, umbrage to another person, and who do you, (gentle reader,)
imagine this person to have been?

This person was, in fact, one whose name was Chia Se; a grandson
likewise of a main branch of the Ning mansion. His parents had died at
an early period, and he had, ever since his youth, lived with Chia Chen.
He had at this time grown to be sixteen years of age, and was, as
compared with Chia Jung, still more handsome and good looking. These two
cousins were united by ties of the closest intimacy, and were always
together, whether they went out or stayed at home.

The inmates of the Ning mansion were many in number, and their opinions
of a mixed kind; and that whole bevy of servants, devoid as they were of
all sense of right, solely excelled in the practice of inventing stories
to backbite their masters; and this is how some mean person or other
again, who it was is not known, insinuated slanderous and opprobrious
reports (against Chia Se). Chia Chen had, presumably, also come to hear
some unfavourable criticisms (on his account), and having, of course, to
save himself from odium and suspicion, he had, at this juncture, after
all, to apportion him separate quarters, and to bid Chia Se move outside
the Ning mansion, where he went and established a home of his own to
live in.

This Chia Se was handsome as far as external appearances went, and
intelligent withal in his inward natural gifts, but, though he nominally
came to school, it was simply however as a mere blind; for he treated,
as he had ever done, as legitimate occupations, such things as cock
fighting, dog-racing and visiting places of easy virtue. And as, above,
he had Chia Chen to spoil him by over-indulgence; and below, there was
Chia Jung to stand by him, who of the clan could consequently presume to
run counter to him?

Seeing that he was on the closest terms of friendship with Chia Jung,
how could he reconcile himself to the harsh treatment which he now saw
Ch'in Chung receive from some persons? Being now bent upon pushing
himself forward to revenge the injustice, he was, for the time, giving
himself up to communing with his own heart. "Chin Jung, Chia Jui and the
rest are," he pondered, "friends of uncle Hsueeh, but I too am on
friendly terms with him, and he with me, and if I do come forward and
they tell old Hsueeh, won't we impair the harmony which exists between
us? and if I don't concern myself, such idle tales make, when spoken,
every one feel uncomfortable; and why shouldn't I now devise some means
to hold them in check, so as to stop their mouths, and prevent any loss
of face!"

Having concluded this train of thought, he also pretended that he had to
go out, and, walking as far as the back, he, with low voice, called to
his side Ming Yen, the page attending upon Pao-yue in his studies, and in
one way and another, he made use of several remarks to egg him on.

This Ming Yen was the smartest of Pao-yue's attendants, but he was also
young in years and lacked experience, so that he lent a patient ear to
what Chia Se had to say about the way Chin Jung had insulted Ch'in
Chung. "Even your own master, Pao-yue," (Chia Se added), "is involved,
and if you don't let him know a bit of your mind, he will next time be
still more arrogant."

This Ming Yen was always ready, even with no valid excuse, to be
insolent and overbearing to people, so that after hearing the news and
being furthermore instigated by Chia Se, he speedily rushed into the
schoolroom and cried out "Chin Jung;" nor did he address him as Mr.
Chin, but merely shouted "What kind of fellow is this called Chin?"

Chia Se presently shuffled his feet, while he designedly adjusted his
dress and looked at the rays of the sun. "It's time," he observed and
walking forthwith, first up to Chia Jui, he explained to him that he had
something to attend to and would like to get away a little early; and as
Chia Jui did not venture to stop him, he had no alternative but to let
him have his way and go.

During this while, Ming Yen had entered the room and promptly seizing
Chin Jung in a grip: "What we do, whether proper or improper," he said,
"doesn't concern you! It's enough anyway that we don't defile your
father! A fine brat you are indeed, to come out and meddle with your Mr.
Ming!"

These words plunged the scholars of the whole class in such
consternation that they all wistfully and absently looked at him.

"Ming Yen," hastily shouted out Chia Jui, "you're not to kick up a
rumpus."

Chin Jung was so full of anger that his face was quite yellow. "What a
subversion of propriety! a slave and a menial to venture to behave in
this manner! I'll just simply speak to your master," he exclaimed as he
readily pushed his hands off and was about to go and lay hold of Pao-yue
to beat him.

Ch'in Chung was on the point of turning round to leave the room, when
with a sound of 'whiff' which reached him from behind, he at once caught
sight of a square inkslab come flying that way. Who had thrown it he
could not say, but it struck the desk where Chia Lan and Chia Chuen were
seated.

These two, Chia Lan and Chia Chuen, were also the great-grandsons of a
close branch of the Jung mansion. This Chia Chuen had been left
fatherless at an early age, and his mother doated upon him in an unusual
manner, and it was because at school he was on most friendly terms with
Chia Lan, that these two sat together at the same desk. Who would have
believed that Chia Chuen would, in spite of being young in years, have
had an extremely strong mind, and that he would be mostly up to mischief
without the least fear of any one. He watched with listless eye from his
seat Chin Jung's friends stealthily assist Chin Jung, as they flung an
inkslab to strike Ming Yen, but when, as luck would have it, it hit the
wrong mark, and fell just in front of him, smashing to atoms the
porcelain inkslab and water bottle, and smudging his whole book with
ink, Chia Chuen was, of course, much incensed, and hastily gave way to
abuse. "You consummate pugnacious criminal rowdies! why, doesn't this
amount to all of you taking a share in the fight!" And as he uttered
this abuse, he too forthwith seized an inkslab, which he was bent upon
flinging.

Chia Lan was one who always tried to avoid trouble, so that he lost no
time in pressing down the inkslab, while with all the words his mouth
could express, he tried to pacify him, adding "My dear brother, it's no
business of yours and mine."

Chia Chuen could not repress his resentment; and perceiving that the
inkslab was held down, he at once laid hold of a box containing books,
which he flung in this direction; but being, after all, short of
stature, and weak of strength, he was unable to send it anywhere near
the mark; so that it dropped instead when it got as far as the desk
belonging to Pao-yue and Ch'in Chung, while a dreadful crash became
audible as it fell smash on the table. The books, papers, pencils,
inkslabs, and other writing materials were all scattered over the whole
table; and Pao-yue's cup besides containing tea was itself broken to
pieces and the tea spilt.

Chia Chuen forthwith jumped forward with the intent of assailing the
person who had flung the inkslab at the very moment that Chin Jung took
hold of a long bamboo pole which was near by; but as the space was
limited, and the pupils many, how could he very well brandish a long
stick? Ming Yen at an early period received a whack, and he shouted
wildly, "Don't you fellows yet come to start a fight."

Pao-yue had, besides, along with him several pages, one of whom was
called Sao Hung, another Ch'u Yo, another Mo Yue. These three were
naturally up to every mischief, so that with one voice, bawling
boisterously, "You children of doubtful mothers, have you taken up
arms?" Mo Yue promptly took up the bar of a door; while Sao Hung and Ch'u
Yo both laid hold of horsewhips, and they all rushed forward like a hive
of bees.

Chia Jui was driven to a state of exasperation; now he kept this one in
check, and the next moment he reasoned with another, but who would
listen to his words? They followed the bent of their inclinations and
stirred up a serious disturbance.

Of the whole company of wayward young fellows, some there were who gave
sly blows for fun's sake; others there were who were not gifted with
much pluck and hid themselves on one side; there were those too who
stood on the tables, clapping their hands and laughing immoderately,
shouting out: "Go at it."

The row was, at this stage, like water bubbling over in a cauldron, when
several elderly servants, like Li Kuei and others, who stood outside,
heard the uproar commence inside, and one and all came in with all haste
and united in their efforts to pacify them. Upon asking "What's the
matter?" the whole bevy of voices shouted out different versions; this
one giving this account, while another again another story. But Li Kuei
temporised by rebuking Ming Yen and others, four in all, and packing
them off.

Ch'in Chung's head had, at an early period, come into contact with Chin
Jung's pole and had had the skin grazed off. Pao-yue was in the act of
rubbing it for him, with the overlap of his coat, but realising that the
whole lot of them had been hushed up, he forthwith bade Li Kuei collect
his books.

"Bring my horse round," he cried; "I'm going to tell Mr. Chia Tai-ju
that we have been insulted. I won't venture to tell him anything else,
but (tell him I will) that having come with all propriety and made our
report to Mr. Chia Jui, Mr. Chia Jui instead (of helping us) threw the
fault upon our shoulders. That while he heard people abuse us, he went
so far as to instigate them to beat us; that Ming Yen seeing others
insult us, did naturally take our part; but that they, instead (of
desisting,) combined together and struck Ming Yen and even broke open
Ch'in Chung's head. And that how is it possible for us to continue our
studies in here?"

"My dear sir," replied Li Kuei coaxingly, "don't be so impatient! As Mr.
Chia Tai-ju has had something to attend to and gone home, were you now,
for a trifle like this, to go and disturb that aged gentleman, it will
make us, indeed, appear as if we had no sense of propriety: my idea is
that wherever a thing takes place, there should it be settled; and
what's the need of going and troubling an old man like him. This is all
you, Mr. Chia Jui, who is to blame; for in the absence of Mr. Chia
Tai-ju, you, sir, are the head in this school, and every one looks to
you to take action. Had all the pupils been at fault, those who deserved
a beating should have been beaten, and those who merited punishment
should have been punished! and why did you wait until things came to
such a pass, and didn't even exercise any check?"

"I blew them up," pleaded Chia Jui, "but not one of them would listen."

"I'll speak out, whether you, worthy sir, resent what I'm going to say
or not," ventured Li Kuei. "It's you, sir, who all along have after all
had considerable blame attached to your name; that's why all these young
men wouldn't hear you! Now if this affair is bruited, until it reaches
Mr. Chia Tai-ju's ears, why even you, sir, will not be able to escape
condemnation; and why don't you at once make up your mind to disentangle
the ravelled mess and dispel all trouble and have done with it!"

"Disentangle what?" inquired Pao-yue; "I shall certainly go and make my
report."

"If Chin Jung stays here," interposed Ch'in Chung sobbing, "I mean to go
back home."

"Why that?" asked Pao-yue. "Is it likely that others can safely come and
that you and I can't? I feel it my bounden duty to tell every one
everything at home so as to expel Chin Jung. This Chin Jung," he went on
to inquire as he turned towards Lei Kuei, "is the relative or friend of
what branch of the family?"

Li Kuei gave way to reflection and then said by way of reply: "There's
no need whatever for you to raise this question; for were you to go and
report the matter to the branch of the family to which he belongs, the
harmony which should exist between cousins will be still more impaired."

"He's the nephew of Mrs. Huang, of the Eastern mansion," interposed Ming
Yen from outside the window. "What a determined and self-confident
fellow he must be to even come and bully us; Mrs. Huang is his paternal
aunt! That mother of yours is only good for tossing about like a
millstone, for kneeling before our lady Lien, and begging for something
to pawn. I've no eye for such a specimen of mistress."

"What!" speedily shouted Li Kuei, "does this son of a dog happen to know
of the existence of all these gnawing maggots?" (these disparaging
facts).

Pao-yue gave a sardonic smile. "I was wondering whose relative he was,"
he remarked; "is he really sister-in-law Huang's nephew? well, I'll go
at once and speak to her."

As he uttered these words, his purpose was to start there and then, and
he called Ming Yen in, to come and pack up his books. Ming Yen walked in
and put the books away. "Master," he went on to suggest, in an exultant
manner, "there's no need for you to go yourself to see her; I'll go to
her house and tell her that our old lady has something to ask of her. I
can hire a carriage to bring her over, and then, in the presence of her
venerable ladyship, she can be spoken to; and won't this way save a lot
of trouble?"

"Do you want to die?" speedily shouted Li Kuei; "mind, when you go back,
whether right or wrong, I'll first give you a good bumping, and then go
and report you to our master and mistress, and just tell them that it's
you, and only you, who instigated Mr. Pao-yue! I've succeeded, after ever
so much trouble, in coaxing them, and mending matters to a certain
extent, and now you come again to continue a new plan. It's you who
stirred up this row in the school-room; and not to speak of your
finding, as would have been the proper course, some way of suppressing
it, there you are instead still jumping into the fire."

Ming Yen, at this juncture, could not muster the courage to utter a
sound. By this time Chia Jui had also apprehended that if the row came
to be beyond clearing up, he himself would likewise not be clear of
blame, so that circumstances compelled him to pocket his grievances and
to come and entreat Ch'in Chung as well as to make apologies to Pao-yue.
These two young fellows would not at first listen to his advances, but
Pao-yue at length explained that he would not go and report the
occurrence, provided only Chin Jung admitted his being in the wrong.
Chin Jung refused, at the outset, to agree to this, but he ultimately
could find no way out of it, as Chia Jui himself urged him to make some
temporising apology.

Li Kuei and the others felt compelled to tender Chin Jung some good
advice: "It's you," they said, "who have given rise to the disturbance,
and if you don't act in this manner, how will the matter ever be brought
to an end?" so that Chin Jung found it difficult to persist in his
obstinacy, and was constrained to make a bow to Ch'in Chung.

Pao-yue was, however, not yet satisfied, but would insist upon his
knocking his head on the ground, and Chia Jui, whose sole aim was to
temporarily smother the affair, quietly again urged Chin Jung, adding
that the proverb has it: "That if you keep down the anger of a minute,
you will for a whole life-time feel no remorse."

Whether Chin Jung complied or not to his advice is not known, but the
following chapter will explain.




CHAPTER X.

  Widow Chin, prompted by a desire to reap advantage, puts up
      temporarily with an insult.
  Dr. Chang in discussing Mrs. Chin's illness minutely exhausts its
      origin.


We will now resume our story. As the persons against Chin Jung were so
many and their pressure so great, and as, what was more, Chia Jui urged
him to make amends, he had to knock his head on the ground before Ch'in
Chung. Pao-yue then gave up his clamorous remonstrances and the whole
crowd dispersed from school.

Chin Jung himself returned home all alone, but the more he pondered on
the occurrence, the more incensed he felt. "Ch'in Chung," he argued, "is
simply Chia Jung's young brother-in-law, and is no son or grandson of
the Chia family, and he too joins the class and prosecutes his studies
on no other footing than that of mine; but it's because he relies upon
Pao-yue's friendship for him that he has no eye for any one. This being
the case, he should be somewhat proper in his behaviour, and there would
be then not a word to say about it! He has besides all along been very
mystical with Pao-yue, imagining that we are all blind, and have no eyes
to see what's up! Here he goes again to-day and mixes with people in
illicit intrigues; and it's all because they happened to obtrude
themselves before my very eyes that this rumpus has broken out; but of
what need I fear?"

His mother, nee Hu, hearing him mutter; "Why meddle again," she
explained, "in things that don't concern you? I had endless trouble in
getting to speak to your paternal aunt; and your aunt had, on the other
hand, a thousand and one ways and means to devise, before she could
appeal to lady Secunda, of the Western mansion; and then only it was
that you got this place to study in. Had we not others to depend upon
for your studies, would we have in our house the means sufficient to
engage a teacher? Besides, in other people's school, tea and eatables
are all ready and found; and these two years that you've been there for
your lessons, we've likewise effected at home a great saving in what
would otherwise have been necessary for your eating and use. Something
has been, it's true, economised; but you have further a liking for spick
and span clothes. Besides, it's only through your being there to study,
that you've come to know Mr. Hsueeh! that Mr. Hsueeh, who has even in one
year given us so much pecuniary assistance as seventy and eighty taels!
And now you would go and raise a row in this school-room! why, if we
were bent upon finding such another place, I tell you plainly, and once
for all, that we would find it more difficult than if we tried to scale
the heavens! Now do quietly play for a while, and then go to sleep, and
you'll be ever so much better for it then."

Chin Jung thereupon stifled his anger and held his tongue; and, after a
short while, he in fact went to sleep of his own accord.

The next day he again went to school, and no further comment need be
made about it; but we will go on to explain that a young lady related to
her had at one time been given in marriage to a descendant (of the
eldest branch) of the Chia family, (whose names were written) with the
jade radical, Chia Huang by name; but how could the whole number of
members of the clan equal in affluence and power the two mansions of
Ning and Jung? This fact goes, as a matter of course, without saying.
The Chia Huang couple enjoyed some small income; but they also went, on
frequent occasions, to the mansions of Ning and Jung to pay their
respects; and they knew likewise so well how to adulate lady Feng and
Mrs. Yu, that lady Feng and Mrs. Yu would often grant them that
assistance and support which afforded them the means of meeting their
daily expenses.

It just occurred on this occasion that the weather was clear and fine,
and that there happened, on the other hand, to be nothing to attend to
at home, so forthwith taking along with her a matron, (Mrs. Chia Huang)
got into a carriage and came over to see widow Chin and her nephew.
While engaged in a chat, Chin Jung's mother accidentally broached the
subject of the affair, which had transpired in the school-room of the
Chia mansion on the previous day, and she gave, for the benefit of her
young sister-in-law, a detailed account of the whole occurrence from
beginning to end.

This Mrs. Huang would not have had her temper ruffled had she not come
to hear what had happened; but having heard about it, anger sprung from
the very depths of her heart. "This fellow, Ch'in Chung," she exclaimed,
"is a relative of the Chia family, but is it likely that Jung Erh isn't,
in like manner, a relative of the Chia family; and when relatives are
many, there's no need to put on airs! Besides, does his conduct consist,
for the most part, of anything that would make one get any face? In
fact, Pao-yue himself shouldn't do injury to himself by condescending to
look at him. But, as things have come to this pass, give me time and
I'll go to the Eastern mansion and see our lady Chen and then have a
chat with Ch'in Chung's sister, and ask her to decide who's right and
who's wrong!"

Chin Jung's mother upon hearing these words was terribly distressed.
"It's all through my hasty tongue," she observed with vehemence, "that
I've told you all, sister-in-law: but please, sister, give up at once
the idea of going over to say anything about it! Don't trouble yourself
as to who is in the right, and who is in the wrong; for were any
unpleasantness to come out of it, how could we here stand on our legs?
and were we not to stand on our legs, not only would we never be able to
engage a tutor, but the result will be, on the contrary, that for his
own person will be superadded many an expense for eatables and
necessaries."

"What do I care about how many?" replied Mrs. Huang; "wait till I've
spoken about it, and we'll see what will be the result." Nor would she
accede to her sister-in-law's entreaties, but bidding, at the same time,
the matron look after the carriage, she got into it, and came over to
the Ning Mansion.

On her arrival at the Ning Mansion, she entered by the eastern side
gate, and dismounting from the carriage, she went in to call on Mrs. Yu,
the spouse of Chia Chen, with whom she had not the courage to put on any
high airs; but gently and quietly she made inquiries after her health,
and after passing some irrelevant remarks, she ascertained: "How is it I
don't see lady Jung to-day?"

"I don't know," replied Mrs. Yu, "what's the matter with her these last
few days; but she hasn't been herself for two months and more; and the
doctor who was asked to see her declares that it is nothing connected
with any happy event. A couple of days back, she felt, as soon as the
afternoon came, both to move, and both even to utter a word; while the
brightness of her eyes was all dimmed; and I told her, 'You needn't
stick to etiquette, for there's no use for you to come in the forenoon
and evening, as required by conventionalities; but what you must do is,
to look after your own health. Should any relative come over, there's
also myself to receive them; and should any of the senior generation
think your absence strange, I'll explain things for you, if you'll let
me.'

"I also advised brother Jung on the subject: 'You shouldn't,' I said,
'allow any one to trouble her; nor let her be put out of temper, but let
her quietly attend to her health, and she'll get all right. Should she
fancy anything to eat, just come over here and fetch it; for, in the
event of anything happening to her, were you to try and find another
such a wife to wed, with such a face and such a disposition, why, I
fear, were you even to seek with a lantern in hand, there would really
be no place where you could discover her. And with such a temperament
and deportment as hers, which of our relatives and which of our elders
don't love her?' That's why my heart has been very distressed these two
days! As luck would have it early this morning her brother turned up to
see her, but who would have fancied him to be such a child, and so
ignorant of what is proper and not proper to do? He saw well enough that
his sister was not well; and what's more all these matters shouldn't
have been recounted to her; for even supposing he had received the
gravest offences imaginable, it behoved him anyhow not to have broached
the subject to her! Yesterday, one would scarcely believe it, a fight
occurred in the school-room, and some pupil or other who attends that
class, somehow insulted him; besides, in this business, there were a
good many indecent and improper utterances, but all these he went and
told his sister! Now, sister-in-law, you are well aware that though (our
son Jung's) wife talks and laughs when she sees people, that she is
nevertheless imaginative and withal too sensitive, so that no matter
what she hears, she's for the most part bound to brood over it for three
days and five nights, before she loses sight of it, and it's from this
excessive sensitiveness that this complaint of hers arises. Today, when
she heard that some one had insulted her brother, she felt both vexed
and angry; vexed that those fox-like, cur-like friends of his had moved
right and wrong, and intrigued with this one and deluded that one; angry
that her brother had, by not learning anything profitable, and not
having his mind set upon study, been the means of bringing about a row
at school; and on account of this affair, she was so upset that she did
not even have her early meal. I went over a short while back and
consoled her for a time, and likewise gave her brother a few words of
advice; and after having packed off that brother of hers to the mansion
on the other side, in search of Pao-yue, and having stood by and seen her
have half a bowl of birds' nests soup, I at length came over. Now,
sister-in-law, tell me, is my heart sore or not? Besides, as there's
nowadays no good doctor, the mere thought of her complaint makes my
heart feel as if it were actually pricked with needles! But do you and
yours, perchance, know of any good practitioner?"

Mrs. Chin had, while listening to these words, been, at an early period,
so filled with concern that she cast away to distant lands the reckless
rage she had been in recently while at her sister-in-law's house, when
she had determined to go and discuss matters over with Mrs. Ch'in. Upon
hearing Mrs. Yu inquire of her about a good doctor, she lost no time in
saying by way of reply: "Neither have we heard of any one speak of a
good doctor; but from the account I've just heard of Mrs. Ch'in's
illness, it may still, there's no saying, be some felicitous ailment;
so, sister-in-law, don't let any one treat her recklessly, for were she
to be treated for the wrong thing, the result may be dreadful!"

"Quite so!" replied Mrs. Yu.

But while they were talking, Chia Chen came in from out of doors, and
upon catching sight of Mrs. Chin; "Isn't this Mrs. Huang?" he inquired
of Mrs. Yu; whereupon Mrs. Chin came forward and paid her respects to
Chia Chen.

"Invite this lady to have her repast here before she goes," observed
Chia Chen to Mrs. Yu; and as he uttered these words he forthwith walked
into the room on the off side.

The object of Mrs. Chin's present visit had originally been to talk to
Mrs. Ch'in about the insult which her brother had received from the
hands of Ch'in Chung, but when she heard that Mrs. Ch'in was ill, she
did not have the courage to even so much as make mention of the object
of her errand. Besides, as Chia Chen and Mrs. Yu had given her a most
cordial reception, her resentment was transformed into pleasure, so that
after a while spent in a further chat about one thing and another, she
at length returned to her home.

It was only after the departure of Mrs. Chin that Chia Chen came over
and took a seat. "What did she have to say for herself during this visit
to-day?" he asked of Mrs. Yu.

"She said nothing much," replied Mrs. Yu. "When she first entered the
room, her face bore somewhat of an angry look, but, after a lengthy chat
and as soon as mention of our son's wife's illness was made, this
angered look after all gradually abated. You also asked me to keep her
for the repast, but, having heard that our son's wife was so ill she
could not very well stay, so that all she did was to sit down, and after
making a few more irrelevant remarks, she took her departure. But she
had no request to make. To return however now to the illness of Jung's
wife, it's urgent that you should find somewhere a good doctor to
diagnose it for her; and whatever you do, you should lose no time. The
whole body of doctors who at present go in and out of our household, are
they worth having? Each one of them listens to what the patient has to
say of the ailment, and then, adding a string of flowery sentences, out
he comes with a long rigmarole; but they are exceedingly diligent in
paying us visits; and in one day, three or four of them are here at
least four and five times in rotation! They come and feel her pulse,
they hold consultation together, and write their prescriptions, but,
though she has taken their medicines, she has seen no improvement; on
the contrary, she's compelled to change her clothes three and five times
each day, and to sit up to see the doctor; a thing which, in fact, does
the patient no good."

"This child too is somewhat simple," observed Chia Chen; "for what need
has she to be taking off her clothes, and changing them for others? And
were she again to catch a chill, she would add something more to her
illness; and won't it be dreadful! The clothes may be no matter how
fine, but what is their worth, after all? The health of our child is
what is important to look to! and were she even to wear out a suit of
new clothes a-day, what would that too amount to? I was about to tell
you that a short while back, Feng Tzu-ying came to see me, and,
perceiving that I had somewhat of a worried look, he asked me what was
up; and I told him that our son's wife was not well at all, that as we
couldn't get any good doctor, we couldn't determine with any certainty,
whether she was in an interesting condition, or whether she was
suffering from some disease; that as we could neither tell whether there
was any danger or not, my heart was, for this reason, really very much
distressed. Feng Tzu-ying then explained that he knew a young doctor who
had made a study of his profession, Chang by surname, and Yu-shih by
name, whose learning was profound to a degree; who was besides most
proficient in the principles of medicine, and had the knack of
discriminating whether a patient would live or die; that this year he
had come to the capital to purchase an official rank for his son, and
that he was now living with him in his house. In view of these
circumstances, not knowing but that if, perchance, the case of our
daughter-in-law were placed in his hands, he couldn't avert the danger,
I readily despatched a servant, with a card of mine, to invite him to
come; but the hour to-day being rather late, he probably won't be round,
but I believe he's sure to be here to-morrow. Besides, Feng-Tzu-ying was
also on his return home, to personally entreat him on my behalf, so that
he's bound, when he has asked him, to come and see her. Let's therefore
wait till Dr. Chang has been here and seen her, when we can talk matters
over!"

Mrs. Yu was very much cheered when she heard what was said. "The day
after to-morrow," she felt obliged to add, "is again our senior's, Mr.
Chia Ching's birthday, and how are we to celebrate it after all?"

"I've just been over to our Senior's and paid my respects," replied Chia
Chen, "and further invited the old gentleman to come home, and receive
the congratulations of the whole family.

"'I'm accustomed,' our Senior explained, 'to peace and quiet, and have
no wish to go over to that worldly place of yours; for you people are
certain to have published that it's my birthday, and to entertain the
design to ask me to go round to receive the bows of the whole lot of
you. But won't it be better if you were to give the "Record of
Meritorious Acts," which I annotated some time ago, to some one to copy
out clean for me, and have it printed? Compared with asking me to come,
and uselessly receive the obeisances of you all, this will be yea even a
hundred times more profitable! In the event of the whole family wishing
to pay me a visit on any of the two days, to-morrow or the day after
to-morrow, if you were to stay at home and entertain them in proper
style, that will be all that is wanted; nor will there be any need to
send me anything! Even you needn't come two days from this; and should
you not feel contented at heart, well, you had better bow your head
before me to-day before you go. But if you do come again the day after
to-morrow, with a lot of people to disturb me, I shall certainly be
angry with you.' After what he said, I will not venture to go and see
him two days hence; but you had better send for Lai Sheng, and bid him
get ready a banquet to continue for a couple of days."

Mrs. Yu, having asked Chia Jung to come round, told him to direct Lai
Sheng to make the usual necessary preparations for a banquet to last for
a couple of days, with due regard to a profuse and sumptuous style.

"You go by-and-by," (she advised him), "in person to the Western Mansion
and invite dowager lady Chia, mesdames Hsing and Wang, and your
sister-in-law Secunda lady Lien to come over for a stroll. Your father
has also heard of a good doctor, and having already sent some one to ask
him round, I think that by to-morrow he's sure to come; and you had
better tell him, in a minute manner, the serious symptoms of her ailment
during these few days."

Chia Jung having signified his obedience to each of her recommendations,
and taken his leave, was just in time to meet the youth coming back from
Feng Tzu-ying's house, whither he had gone a short while back to invite
the doctor round.

"Your slave," he consequently reported, "has just been with a card of
master's to Mr. Feng's house and asked the doctor to come. 'The gentleman
here,' replied the doctor, 'has just told me about it; but to-day, I've
had to call on people the whole day, and I've only this moment come
home; and I feel now my strength (so worn out), that I couldn't really
stand any exertion. In fact were I even to get as far as the mansion, I
shouldn't be in a fit state to diagnose the pulses! I must therefore
have a night's rest, but, to-morrow for certain, I shall come to the
mansion. My medical knowledge,' he went on to observe, 'is very shallow,
and I don't deserve the honour of such eminent recommendation; but as
Mr. Feng has already thus spoken of me in your mansion, I can't but
present myself. It will be all right if in anticipation you deliver this
message for me to your honourable master; but as for your worthy
master's card, I cannot really presume to keep it.' It was again at his
instance that I've brought it back; but, Sir, please mention this result
for me (to master)."

Chia Jung turned back again, and entering the house delivered the
message to Chia Chen and Mrs. Yu; whereupon he walked out, and, calling
Lai Sheng before him, he transmitted to him the orders to prepare the
banquet for a couple of days.

After Lai Sheng had listened to the directions, he went off, of course,
to get ready the customary preparations; but upon these we shall not
dilate, but confine ourselves to the next day.

At noon, a servant on duty at the gate announced that the Doctor Chang,
who had been sent for, had come, and Chia Chen conducted him along the
Court into the large reception Hall, where they sat down; and after they
had partaken of tea, he broached the subject.

"Yesterday," he explained, "the estimable Mr. Feng did me the honour to
speak to me of your character and proficiency, venerable doctor, as well
as of your thorough knowledge of medicine, and I, your mean brother, was
filled with an immeasurable sense of admiration!"

"Your Junior," remonstrated Dr. Chang, "is a coarse, despicable and mean
scholar and my knowledge is shallow and vile! but as worthy Mr. Feng did
me the honour yesterday of telling me that your family, sir, had
condescended to look upon me, a low scholar, and to favour me too with
an invitation, could I presume not to obey your commands? But as I
cannot boast of the least particle of real learning, I feel overburdened
with shame!"

"Why need you be so modest?" observed Chia Chen; "Doctor, do please walk
in at once to see our son's wife, for I look up, with full reliance, to
your lofty intelligence to dispel my solicitude!"

Chia Jung forthwith walked in with him. When they reached the inner
apartment, and he caught sight of Mrs. Ch'in, he turned round and asked
Chia Jung, "This is your honourable spouse, isn't it?"

"Yes, it is," assented Chia Jung; "but please, Doctor, take a seat, and
let me tell you the symptoms of my humble wife's ailment, before her
pulse be felt. Will this do?"

"My mean idea is," remarked the Doctor, "that it would, after all, be
better that I should begin by feeling her pulse, before I ask you to
inform me what the source of the ailment is. This is the first visit I
pay to your honourable mansion; besides, I possess no knowledge of
anything; but as our worthy Mr. Feng would insist upon my coming over to
see you, I had in consequence no alternative but to come. After I have
now made a diagnosis, you can judge whether what I say is right or not,
before you explain to me the phases of the complaint during the last few
days, and we can deliberate together upon some prescription; as to the
suitableness or unsuitableness of which your honourable father will then
have to decide, and what is necessary will have been done."

"Doctor," rejoined Chia Jung, "you are indeed eminently clear sighted;
all I regret at present is that we have met so late! But please, Doctor,
diagnose the state of the pulse, so as to find out whether there be hope
of a cure or not; if a cure can be effected, it will be the means of
allaying the solicitude of my father and mother."

The married women attached to that menage forthwith presented a pillow;
and as it was being put down for Mrs. Ch'in to rest her arm on, they
raised the lower part of her sleeve so as to leave her wrist exposed.
The Doctor thereupon put out his hand and pressed it on the pulse of the
right hand. Regulating his breath (to the pulsation) so as to be able to
count the beatings, he with due care and minuteness felt the action for
a considerable time, when, substituting the left hand, he again went
through the same operation.

"Let us go and sit outside," he suggested, after he had concluded
feeling her pulses. Chia Jung readily adjourned, in company with the
Doctor, to the outer apartment, where they seated themselves on the
stove-couch. A matron having served tea; "Please take a cup of tea,
doctor," Chia Jung observed. When tea was over, "Judging," he inquired,
"Doctor, from the present action of the pulses, is there any remedy or
not?"

"The action of the pulse, under the forefinger, on the left hand of your
honorable spouse," proceeded the Doctor, "is deep and agitated; the left
hand pulse, under the second finger, is deep and faint. The pulse, under
the forefinger, of the right hand, is gentle and lacks vitality. The
right hand pulse, under my second finger, is superficial, and has lost
all energy. The deep and agitated beating of the forepulse of the left
hand arises from the febrile state, due to the weak action of the heart.
The deep and delicate condition of the second part of the pulse of the
left wrist, emanates from the sluggishness of the liver, and the
scarcity of the blood in that organ. The action of the forefinger pulse,
of the right wrist, is faint and lacks strength, as the breathing of the
lungs is too weak. The second finger pulse of the right wrist is
superficial and devoid of vigour, as the spleen must be affected
injuriously by the liver. The weak action of the heart, and its febrile
state, should be the natural causes which conduce to the present
irregularity in the catamenia, and insomnia at night; the poverty of
blood in the liver, and the sluggish condition of that organ must
necessarily produce pain in the ribs; while the overdue of the
catamenia, the cardiac fever, and debility of the respiration of the
lungs, should occasion frequent giddiness in the head, and swimming of
the eyes, the certain recurrence of perspiration between the periods of
3 to 5 and 5 to 7, and the sensation of being seated on board ship. The
obstruction of the spleen by the liver should naturally create distaste
for liquid or food, debility of the vital energies and prostration of
the four limbs. From my diagnosis of these pulses, there should exist
these various symptoms, before (the pulses and the symptoms can be said)
to harmonise. But should perchance (any doctor maintain) that this state
of the pulses imports a felicitous event, your servant will not presume
to give an ear to such an opinion!"

A matron, who was attached as a personal attendant (to Mrs. Ch'in,) and
who happened to be standing by interposed: "How could it be otherwise?"
she ventured. "In real truth, Doctor, you speak like a supernatural
being, and there's verily no need for us to say anything! We have now,
ready at hand, in our household, a good number of medical gentlemen, who
are in attendance upon her, but none of these are proficient enough to
speak in this positive manner. Some there are who say that it's a
genital complaint; others maintain that it's an organic disease. This
doctor explains that there is no danger: while another, again, holds
that there's fear of a crisis either before or after the winter
solstice; but there is, in one word, nothing certain said by them. May
it please you, sir, now to favour us with your clear directions."

"This complaint of your lady's," observed the Doctor, "has certainly
been neglected by the whole number of doctors; for had a treatment with
certain medicines been initiated at the time of the first occurrence of
her habitual sickness, I cannot but opine that, by this time, a perfect
cure would have been effected. But seeing that the organic complaint has
now been, through neglect, allowed to reach this phase, this calamity
was, in truth, inevitable. My ideas are that this illness stands, as
yet, a certain chance of recovery, (three chances out of ten); but we
will see how she gets on, after she has had these medicines of mine.
Should they prove productive of sleep at night, then there will be added
furthermore two more chances in the grip of our hands. From my
diagnosis, your lady is a person, gifted with a preeminently excellent,
and intelligent disposition; but an excessive degree of intelligence is
the cause of frequent contrarieties; and frequent contrarieties give
origin to an excessive amount of anxious cares. This illness arises from
the injury done, by worrying and fretting, to the spleen, and from the
inordinate vigour of the liver; hence it is that the relief cannot come
at the proper time and season. Has not your lady, may I ask, heretofore
at the period of the catamenia, suffered, if indeed not from anaemia,
then necessarily from plethora? Am I right in assuming this or not?"

"To be sure she did," replied the matron; "but she has never been
subject to anaemia, but to a plethora, varying from either two to three
days, and extending, with much irregularity, to even ten days."

"Quite so!" observed the Doctor, after hearing what she had to say, "and
this is the source of this organic illness! Had it in past days been
treated with such medicine as could strengthen the heart, and improve
the respiration, would it have reached this stage? This has now overtly
made itself manifest in an ailment originating from the paucity of water
and the vigour of fire; but let me make use of some medicines, and we'll
see how she gets on!"

There and then he set to work and wrote a prescription, which he handed
to Chia Jung, the purpose of which was: Decoction for the improvement of
respiration, the betterment of the blood, and the restoration of the
spleen. Ginseng, Atractylodes Lancea; Yunnan root; Prepared Ti root;
Aralia edulis; Peony roots; Levisticum from Sze Ch'uan; Sophora
tormentosa; Cyperus rotundus, prepared with rice; Gentian, soaked in
vinegar; Huai Shan Yao root; Real "O" glue; Carydalis Ambigua; and Dried
liquorice. Seven Fukien lotus seeds, (the cores of which should be
extracted,) and two large zizyphi to be used as a preparative.

"What exalted intelligence!" Chia Jung, after perusing it, exclaimed.
"But I would also ask you, Doctor, to be good enough to tell me whether
this illness will, in the long run, endanger her life or not?"

The Doctor smiled. "You, sir, who are endowed with most eminent
intelligence (are certain to know) that when a human illness has reached
this phase, it is not a derangement of a day or of a single night; but
after these medicines have been taken, we shall also have to watch the
effect of the treatment! My humble opinion is that, as far as the winter
of this year goes, there is no fear; in fact, after the spring equinox,
I entertain hopes of a complete cure."

Chia Jung was likewise a person with all his wits about him, so that he
did not press any further minute questions.

Chia Jung forthwith escorted the Doctor and saw him off, and taking the
prescription and the diagnosis, he handed them both to Chia Chen for his
perusal, and in like manner recounted to Chia Chen and Mrs. Yu all that
had been said on the subject.

"The other doctors have hitherto not expressed any opinions as positive
as this one has done," observed Mrs. Yu, addressing herself to Chia
Chen, "so that the medicines to be used are, I think, surely the right
ones!"

"He really isn't a man," rejoined Chia Chen, "accustomed to give much of
his time to the practice of medicine, in order to earn rice for his
support: and it's Feng Tzu-ying, who is so friendly with us, who is
mainly to be thanked for succeeding, after ever so much trouble, in
inducing him to come. But now that we have this man, the illness of our
son's wife may, there is no saying, stand a chance of being cured. But
on that prescription of his there is ginseng mentioned, so you had
better make use of that catty of good quality which was bought the other
day."

Chia Jung listened until the conversation came to a close, after which
he left the room, and bade a servant go and buy the medicines, in order
that they should be prepared and administered to Mrs. Ch'in.

What was the state of Mrs. Ch'in's illness, after she partook of these
medicines, we do not know; but, reader, listen to the explanation given
in the chapter which follows.




CHAPTER XI.

  In honour of Chia Ching's birthday, a family banquet is spread in the
      Ning Mansion.
  At the sight of Hsi-feng, Chia Jui entertains feelings of licentious
      love.


We will now explain, in continuation of our story, that on the day of
Chia Ching's birthday, Chia Chen began by getting ready luscious
delicacies and rare fruits, which he packed in sixteen spacious present
boxes, and bade Chia Jung take them, along with the servants belonging
to the household, over to Chia Ching.

Turning round towards Chia Jung: "Mind," he said, "that you observe
whether your grandfather be agreeable or not, before you set to work and
pay your obeisance! 'My father,' tell him, 'has complied with your
directions, venerable senior, and not presumed to come over; but he has
at home ushered the whole company of the members of the family (into
your apartments), where they all paid their homage facing the side of
honour.'"

After Chia Jung had listened to these injunctions, he speedily led off
the family domestics, and took his departure. During this interval, one
by one arrived the guests. First came Chia Lien and Chia Se, who went to
see whether the seats in the various places (were sufficient). "Is there
to be any entertainment or not?" they also inquired.

"Our master," replied the servants, "had, at one time, intended to
invite the venerable Mr. Chia Ching to come and spend this day at home,
and hadn't for this reason presumed to get up any entertainment. But
when the other day he came to hear that the old gentleman was not
coming, he at once gave us orders to go in search of a troupe of young
actors, as well as a band of musicians, and all these people are now
engaged making their preparations on the stage in the garden."

Next came, in a group, mesdames Hsing and Wang, lady Feng and Pao-yue,
followed immediately after by Chia Chen and Mrs. Yu; Mrs. Yu's mother
having already arrived and being in there in advance of her. Salutations
were exchanged between the whole company, and they pressed one another
to take a seat. Chia Chen and Mrs. Yu both handed the tea round.

"Our venerable lady," they explained, as they smiled, "is a worthy
senior; while our father is, on the other hand, only her nephew; so that
on a birthday of a man of his age, we should really not have had the
audacity to invite her ladyship; but as the weather, at this time, is
cool, and the chrysanthemums, in the whole garden, are in luxuriant
blossom, we have requested our venerable ancestor to come for a little
distraction, and to see the whole number of her children and
grand-children amuse themselves. This was the object we had in view,
but, contrary to our expectations, our worthy senior has not again
conferred upon us the lustre of her countenance."

Lady Feng did not wait until madame Wang could open her mouth, but took
the initiative to reply. "Our venerable lady," she urged, "had, even so
late as yesterday, said that she meant to come; but, in the evening,
upon seeing brother Pao eating peaches, the mouth of the old lady once
again began to water, and after partaking of a little more than the half
of one, she had, about the fifth watch, to get out of bed two
consecutive times, with the result that all the forenoon to-day, she
felt her body considerably worn out. She therefore bade me inform our
worthy senior that it was utterly impossible for her to come to-day;
adding however that, if there were any delicacies, she fancied a few
kinds, but that they should be very tender."

When Chia Chen heard these words, he smiled. "Our dowager lady," he
replied, "is, I argued, so fond of amusement that, if she doesn't come
to-day, there must, for a certainty, be some valid reason; and that's
exactly what happens to be the case."

"The other day I heard your eldest sister explain," interposed madame
Wang, "that Chia Jung's wife was anything but well; but what's after all
the matter with her?"

"She has," observed Mrs. Yu, "contracted this illness verily in a
strange manner! Last moon at the time of the mid-autumn festival, she
was still well enough to be able to enjoy herself, during half the
night, in company with our dowager lady and madame Wang. On her return,
she continued in good health, until after the twentieth, when she began
to feel more and more languid every day, and loth, likewise, to eat
anything; and this has been going on for well-nigh half a month and
more; she hasn't besides been anything like her old self for two
months."

"May she not," remarked madame Hsing, taking up the thread of the
conversation, "be ailing for some happy event?"

But while she was uttering these words, some one from outside announced:
"Our senior master, second master and all the gentlemen of the family
have come, and are standing in the Reception Hall!" Whereupon Chia Chen
and Chia Lien quitted the apartment with hurried step; and during this
while, Mrs. Yu reiterated how that some time ago a doctor had also
expressed the opinion that she was ailing for a happy event, but that
the previous day, had come a doctor, recommended by Feng Tzu-ying--a
doctor, who had from his youth up made medicine his study, and was very
proficient in the treatment of diseases,--who asserted, after he had
seen her, that it was no felicitous ailment, but that it was some grave
complaint. "It was only yesterday," (she explained,) "that he wrote his
prescription; and all she has had is but one dose, and already to-day
the giddiness in the head is considerably better; as regards the other
symptoms they have as yet shown no marked improvement."

"I maintain," remarked lady Feng, "that, were she not quite unfit to
stand the exertion, would she in fact, on a day like this, be unwilling
to strain every nerve and come round."

"You saw her," observed Mrs. Yu, "on the third in here; how that she
bore up with a violent effort for ever so long, but it was all because
of the friendship that exists between you two, that she still longed for
your society, and couldn't brook the idea of tearing herself away."

When lady Feng heard these words, her eyes got quite red, and after a
time she at length exclaimed: "In the Heavens of a sudden come wind and
rain; while with man, in a day and in a night, woe and weal survene! But
with her tender years, if for a complaint like this she were to run any
risk, what pleasure is there for any human being to be born and to
sojourn in the world?"

She was just speaking, when Chia Jung walked into the apartment; and
after paying his respects to madame Hsing, madame Wang, and lady Feng,
he then observed to Mrs. Yu: "I have just taken over the eatables to our
venerable ancestor; and, at the same time, I told him that my father was
at home waiting upon the senior, and entertaining the junior gentlemen
of the whole family, and that in compliance with grandfather's orders,
he did not presume to go over. The old gentleman was much delighted by
what he heard me say, and having signified that that was all in order,
bade me tell father and you, mother, to do all you can in your
attendance upon the senior gentlemen and ladies, enjoining me to
entertain, with all propriety, my uncles, aunts, and my cousins. He also
went on to urge me to press the men to cut, with all despatch, the
blocks for the Record of Meritorious Deeds, and to print ten thousand
copies for distribution. All these messages I have duly delivered to my
father, but I must now be quick and go out, so as to send the eatables
for the elder as well as for the younger gentlemen of the entire
household."

"Brother Jung Erh," exclaimed lady Feng, "wait a moment. How is your
wife getting on? how is she, after all, to-day?"

"Not well," replied Chia Jung. "But were you, aunt, on your return to go
in and see her, you will find out for yourself."

Chia Jung forthwith left the room. During this interval, Mrs. Yu
addressed herself to mesdames Hsing and Wang; "My ladies," she asked,
"will you have your repast in here, or will you go into the garden for
it? There are now in the garden some young actors engaged in making
their preparations?"

"It's better in here," madame Wang remarked, as she turned towards
madame Hsing.

Mrs. Yu thereupon issued directions to the married women and matrons to
be quick in serving the eatables. The servants, in waiting outside the
door, with one voice signified their obedience; and each of them went
off to fetch what fell to her share. In a short while, the courses were
all laid out, and Mrs. Yu pressed mesdames Hsing and Wang, as well as
her mother, into the upper seats; while she, together with lady Feng and
Pao-yue, sat at a side table.

"We've come," observed mesdames Hsing and Wang, "with the original idea
of paying our congratulations to our venerable senior on the occasion of
his birthday; and isn't this as if we had come for our own birthdays?"

"The old gentleman," answered lady Feng, "is a man fond of a quiet life;
and as he has already consummated a process of purification, he may well
be looked upon as a supernatural being, so that the purpose to which
your ladyships have given expression may be considered as manifest to
his spirit, upon the very advent of the intention."

As this sentence was uttered the whole company in the room burst out
laughing. Mrs. Yu's mother, mesdames Hsing and Wang, and lady Feng
having one and all partaken of the banquet, rinsed their mouths and
washed their hands, which over, they expressed a wish to go into the
garden.

Chia Jung entered the room. "The senior gentlemen," he said to Mrs. Yu,
"as well as all my uncles and cousins, have finished their repast; but
the elder gentleman Mr. Chia She, who excused himself on the score of
having at home something to attend to, and Mr. Secundus (Chia Cheng),
who is not partial to theatrical performances and is always afraid that
people will be too boisterous in their entertainments, have both of them
taken their departure. The rest of the family gentlemen have been taken
over by uncle Secundus Mr. Lien, and Mr. Se, to the other side to listen
to the play. A few moments back Prince Nan An, Prince Tung P'ing, Prince
Hsi Ning, Prince Pei Ching, these four Princes, with Niu, Duke of Chen
Kuo, and five other dukes, six in all, and Shih, Marquis of Chung Ching,
and other seven, in all eight marquises, sent their messengers with
their cards and presents. I have already told father all about it; but
before I did so, the presents were put away in the counting room, the
lists of presents were all entered in the book, and the 'received with
thanks' cards were handed to the respective messengers of the various
mansions; the men themselves were also tipped in the customary manner,
and all of them were kept to have something to eat before they went on
their way. But, mother, you should invite the two ladies, your mother
and my aunt, to go over and sit in the garden."

"Just so!" observed Mrs. Yu, "but we've only now finished our repast,
and were about to go over."

"I wish to tell you, madame," interposed lady Feng, "that I shall go
first and see brother Jung's wife and then come and join you."

"All right," replied madame Wang; "we should all have been fain to have
paid her a visit, did we not fear lest she should look upon our
disturbing her with displeasure, but just tell her that we would like to
know how she is getting on!"

"My dear sister," remarked Mrs. Yu, "as our son's wife has a ready ear
for all you say, do go and cheer her up, (and if you do so,) it will
besides set my own mind at ease; but be quick and come as soon as you
can into the garden."

Pao-yue being likewise desirous to go along with lady Feng to see lady
Ch'in, madame Wang remarked, "Go and see her just for a while, and then
come over at once into the garden; (for remember) she is your nephew's
wife, (and you couldn't sit in there long)."

Mrs. Yu forthwith invited mesdames Wang and Hsing, as well as her own
mother, to adjourn to the other side, and they all in a body walked into
the garden of Concentrated Fragrance; while lady Feng and Pao-yue betook
themselves, in company with Chia Jung, over to this side.

Having entered the door, they with quiet step walked as far as the
entrance of the inner chamber. Mrs. Ch'in, upon catching sight of them,
was bent upon getting up; but "Be quick," remonstrated lady Feng, "and
give up all idea of standing up; for take care your head will feel
dizzy."

Lady Feng hastened to make a few hurried steps forward and to grasp Mrs.
Ch'in's hand in hers. "My dear girl!" she exclaimed; "How is it that
during the few days I've not seen you, you have grown so thin?"

Readily she then took a seat on the rug, on which Mrs. Ch'in was seated,
while Pao-yue, after inquiring too about her health, sat in the chair on
the opposite side.

"Bring the tea in at once," called out Chia Jung, "for aunt and uncle
Secundus have not had any tea in the drawing room."

Mrs. Ch'in took lady Feng's hand in her own and forced a smile. "This is
all due to my lack of good fortune; for in such a family as this, my
father and mother-in-law treat me just as if I were a daughter of their
own flesh and blood! Besides, your nephew, (my husband,) may, it is
true, my dear aunt, be young in years, but he is full of regard for me,
as I have regard for him, and we have had so far no misunderstanding
between us! In fact, among the senior generation, as well as that of the
same age as myself, in the whole clan, putting you aside, aunt, about
whom no mention need be made, there is not one who has not ever had
anything but love for me, and not one who has not ever shown me anything
but kindness! But since I've fallen ill with this complaint, all my
energy has even every bit of it been taken out of me, so that I've been
unable to show to my father and mother-in-law any mark of filial
attention, yea so much as for one single day and to you, my dear aunt,
with all this affection of yours for me, I have every wish to be dutiful
to the utmost degree, but, in my present state, I'm really not equal to
it; my own idea is, that it isn't likely that I shall last through this
year."

Pao-yue kept, while (she spoke,) his eyes fixed intently upon a picture
on the opposite side, representing some begonias drooping in the spring
time, and upon a pair of scrolls, with this inscription written by Ch'in
Tai-hsue:

  A gentle chill doth circumscribe the dreaming man because the spring
      is cold!
  The fragrant whiff which wafts itself into man's nose, is the perfume
      of wine!

And he could not help recalling to mind his experiences at the time when
he had fallen asleep in this apartment, and had, in his dream, visited
the confines of the Great Void. He was just plunged in a state of
abstraction, when he heard Mrs. Ch'in give utterance to these
sentiments, which pierced his heart as if they were ten thousand arrows,
(with the result that) tears unwittingly trickled from his eyes.

Lady Feng perceiving him in tears felt it extremely painful within
herself to bear the sight; but she was on pins and needles lest the
patient should detect their frame of mind, and feel, instead (of
benefit), still more sore at heart, which would not, after all, be quite
the purpose of her visit; which was to afford her distraction and
consolation. "Pao-yue," she therefore exclaimed, "you are like an old
woman! Ill, as she is, simply makes her speak in this wise, and how ever
could things come to such a pass! Besides, she is young in years, so
that after a short indisposition, her illness will get all right!"
"Don't," she said as she turned towards Mrs. Ch'in, "give way to silly
thoughts and idle ideas! for by so doing won't you yourself be
aggravating your ailment?"

"All that her sickness in fact needs," observed Chia Jung, "is, that she
should be able to take something to eat, and then there will be nothing
to fear."

"Brother Pao," urged lady Feng, "your mother told you to go over, as
soon as you could, so that don't stay here, and go on in the way you're
doing, for you after all incite this lady also to feel uneasy at heart.
Besides, your mother over there is solicitous on your account." "You had
better go ahead with your uncle Pao," she consequently continued,
addressing herself to Chia Jung, "while I sit here a little longer."

When Chia Jung heard this remark, he promptly crossed over with Pao-yue
into the garden of Concentrated Fragrance, while lady Feng went on both
to cheer her up for a time, and to impart to her, in an undertone, a
good deal of confidential advice.

Mrs. Yu had despatched servants, on two or three occasions, to hurry
lady Feng, before she said to Mrs. Ch'in: "Do all you can to take good
care of yourself, and I'll come and see you again. You're bound to get
over this illness; and now, in fact, that you've come across that
renowned doctor, you have really nothing more to fear."

"He might," observed Mrs. Ch'in as she smiled, "even be a supernatural
being and succeed in healing my disease, but he won't be able to remedy
my destiny; for, my dear aunt, I feel sure that with this complaint of
mine, I can do no more than drag on from day to day."

"If you encourage such ideas," remonstrated lady Feng, "how can this
illness ever get all right? What you absolutely need is to cast away all
these notions, and then you'll improve. I hear moreover that the doctor
asserts that if no cure be effected, the fear is of a change for the
worse in spring, and not till then. Did you and I moreover belong to a
family that hadn't the means to afford any ginseng, it would be
difficult to say how we could manage to get it; but were your father and
mother-in-law to hear that it's good for your recovery, why not to speak
of two mace of ginseng a day, but even two catties will be also within
their means! So mind you do take every care of your health! I'm now off
on my way into the garden."

"Excuse me, my dear aunt," added Mrs. Ch'in, "that I can't go with you;
but when you have nothing to do, I entreat you do come over and see me!
and you and I can sit and have a long chat."

After lady Feng had heard these words, her eyes unwillingly got quite
red again. "When I'm at leisure I shall, of course," she rejoined, "come
often to see you;" and forthwith leading off the matrons and married
women, who had come over with her, as well as the women and matrons of
the Ning mansion, she passed through the inner part of the house, and
entered, by a circuitous way, the side gate of the park, when she
perceived: yellow flowers covering the ground; white willows flanking
the slopes; diminutive bridges spanning streams, resembling the Jo Yeh;
zigzag pathways (looking as if) they led to the steps of Heaven; limpid
springs dripping from among the rocks; flowers hanging from hedges
emitting their fragrance, as they were flapped by the winds; red leaves
on the tree tops swaying to and fro; groves picture-like, half stripped
of foliage; the western breeze coming with sudden gusts, and the wail of
the oriole still audible; the warm sun shining with genial rays, and the
cicada also adding its chirp: structures, visible to the gaze at a
distance in the South-east, soaring high on various sites and resting
against the hills; three halls, visible near by on the North-west,
stretching in one connected line, on the bank of the stream; strains of
music filling the pavilion, imbued with an unwonted subtle charm; and
maidens in fine attire penetrating the groves, lending an additional
spell to the scene.

Lady Feng, while engaged in contemplating the beauties of the spot,
advanced onwards step by step. She was plunged in a state of ecstasy,
when suddenly, from the rear of the artificial rockery, egressed a
person, who approached her and facing her said, "My respects to you,
sister-in-law."

Lady Feng was so startled by this unexpected appearance that she drew
back. "Isn't this Mr. Jui?" she ventured.

"What! sister-in-law," exclaimed Chia Jui, "don't you recognise even
me?"

"It isn't that I didn't recognise you," explained lady Feng, "but at the
sudden sight of you, I couldn't conceive that it would possibly be you,
sir, in this place!"

"This was in fact bound to be," replied Chia Jui; "for there's some
subtle sympathy between me and you, sister-in-law. Here I just
stealthily leave the entertainment, in order to revel for a while in
this solitary place when, against every expectation, I come across you,
sister-in-law; and isn't this a subtle sympathy?"

As he spoke, he kept his gaze fixed on lady Feng, who being an
intelligent person, could not but arrive, at the sight of his manner, at
the whole truth in her surmises. "It isn't to be wondered at," she
consequently observed, as she smiled hypocritically, "that your eldest
brother should make frequent allusion to your qualities! for after
seeing you on this occasion, and hearing you utter these few remarks, I
have readily discovered what an intelligent and genial person you are! I
am just now on my way to join the ladies on the other side, and have no
leisure to converse with you; but wait until I've nothing to attend to,
when we can meet again."

"I meant to have gone over to your place and paid my respects to you,
sister-in-law," pleaded Chia Jui, "but I was afraid lest a person of
tender years like yourself mightn't lightly receive any visitors!"

Lady Feng gave another sardonic smile. "Relatives," she continued, "of
one family, as we are, what need is there to say anything of tender
years?"

After Chia Jui had heard these words, he felt his heart swell within him
with such secret joy that he was urged to reflect: "I have at length
to-day, when least I expected it, obtained this remarkable encounter
with her!"

But as the display of his passion became still more repulsive, lady Feng
urged him to go. "Be off at once," she remarked, "and join the
entertainment; for mind, if they find you out, they will mulct you in so
many glasses of wine!"

By the time this suggestion had reached Chia Jui's ears, half of his
body had become stiff like a log of wood; and as he betook himself away,
with lothful step, he turned his head round to cast glances at her. Lady
Feng purposely slackened her pace; and when she perceived that he had
gone a certain distance, she gave way to reflection. "This is indeed,"
she thought, "knowing a person, as far as face goes, and not as heart!
Can there be another such a beast as he! If he really continues to
behave in this manner, I shall soon enough compass his death, with my
own hands, and he'll then know what stuff I'm made of."

Lady Feng, at this juncture moved onward, and after turning round a
chain of hillocks, she caught sight of two or three matrons coming along
with all speed. As soon as they espied lady Feng they put on a smile.
"Our mistress," they said, "perceiving that your ladyship was not
forthcoming, has been in a great state of anxiety, and bade your
servants come again to request you to come over.

"Is your mistress," observed lady Feng, "so like a quick-footed demon?"

While lady Feng advanced leisurely, she inquired, "How many plays have
been recited?" to which question one of the matrons replied, "They have
gone through eight or nine." But while engaged in conversation, they had
already reached the back door of the Tower of Celestial Fragrance, where
she caught sight of Pao-yue playing with a company of waiting-maids and
pages. "Brother Pao," lady Feng exclaimed, "don't be up to too much
mischief!" "The ladies are all sitting upstairs," interposed one of the
maids. "Please, my lady, this is the way up."

At these words lady Feng slackened her pace, raised her dress, and
walked up the stairs, where Mrs. Yu was already at the top of the
landing waiting for her.

"You two," remarked Mrs. Yu, smiling, "are so friendly, that having met
you couldn't possibly tear yourself away to come. You had better
to-morrow move over there and take up your quarters with her and have
done; but sit down and let me, first of all, present you a glass of
wine."

Lady Feng speedily drew near mesdames Hsing and Wang, and begged
permission to take a seat; while Mrs. Yu brought the programme, and
pressed lady Feng to mark some plays.

"The senior ladies occupy the seats of honour," remonstrated lady Feng,
"and how can I presume to choose?"

"We, and our relative by marriage, have selected several plays,"
explained mesdames Hsing and Wang, "and it's for you now to choose some
good ones for us to listen to."

Standing up, lady Feng signified her obedience; and taking over the
programme, and perusing it from top to bottom, she marked off one
entitled, the "Return of the Spirit," and another called "Thrumming and
Singing;" after which she handed back the programme, observing, "When
they have done with the 'Ennoblement of two Officers,' which they are
singing just at present, it will be time enough to sing these two."

"Of course it will," retorted madame Wang, "but they should get it over
as soon as they can, so as to allow your elder Brother and your
Sister-in-law to have rest; besides, their hearts are not at ease."

"You senior ladies don't come often," expostulated Mrs. Yu, "and you and
I will derive more enjoyment were we to stay a little longer; it's as
yet early in the day!"

Lady Feng stood up and looked downstairs. "Where have all the gentlemen
gone to?" she inquired.

"The gentlemen have just gone over to the Pavilion of Plenteous
Effulgence," replied a matron, who stood by; "they have taken along with
them ten musicians and gone in there to drink their wine."

"It wasn't convenient for them," remarked lady Feng, "to be over here;
but who knows what they have again gone to do behind our backs?"

"Could every one," interposed Mrs. Yu, "resemble you, a person of such
propriety!"

While they indulged in chatting and laughing, the plays they had chosen
were all finished; whereupon the tables were cleared of the wines, and
the repast was served. The meal over, the whole company adjourned into
the garden, and came and sat in the drawing-room. After tea, they at
length gave orders to get ready the carriages, and they took their leave
of Mrs. Yu's mother. Mrs. Yu, attended by all the secondary wives,
servants, and married women, escorted them out, while Chia Chen, along
with the whole bevy of young men, stood by the vehicles, waiting in a
group for their arrival.

After saluting mesdames Hsing and Wang, "Aunts," they said, "you must
come over again to-morrow for a stroll."

"We must be excused," observed madame Wang, "we've sat here the whole
day to-day, and are, after all, feeling quite tired; besides, we shall
need to have some rest to-morrow."

Both of them thereupon got into their carriages and took their
departure, while Chia Jui still kept a fixed gaze upon lady Feng; and it
was after Chia Chen had gone in that Li Kuei led round the horse, and
that Pao-yue mounted and went off, following in the track of mesdames
Hsing and Wang.

Chia Chen and the whole number of brothers and nephews belonging to the
family had, during this interval, partaken of their meal, and the whole
party at length broke up. But in like manner, all the inmates of the
clan and the guests spent on the morrow another festive day, but we need
not advert to it with any minuteness.

After this occasion, lady Feng came in person and paid frequent visits
to Mrs. Ch'in; but as there were some days on which her ailment was
considerably better, and others on which it was considerably worse, Chia
Chen, Mrs. Yu, and Chia Jung were in an awful state of anxiety.

Chia Jui, it must moreover be noticed, came over, on several instances,
on a visit to the Jung mansion; but it invariably happened that he found
that lady Feng had gone over to the Ning mansion.

This was just the thirtieth of the eleventh moon, the day on which the
winter solstice fell; and the few days preceding that season, dowager
lady Chia, madame Wang and lady Feng did not let one day go by without
sending some one to inquire about Mrs. Ch'in; and as the servants, on
their return, repeatedly reported that, during the last few days,
neither had her ailment aggravated, nor had it undergone any marked
improvement, madame Wang explained to dowager lady Chia, that as a
complaint of this nature had reached this kind of season without getting
any worse, there was some hope of recovery.

"Of course there is!" observed the old lady; "what a dear child she is!
should anything happen to her, won't it be enough to make people die
from grief!" and as she spake she felt for a time quite sore at heart.
"You and she," continuing, she said to lady Feng, "have been friends for
ever so long; to-morrow is the glorious first (and you can't go), but
after to-morrow you should pay her a visit and minutely scrutinise her
appearance: and should you find her any better, come and tell me on your
return! Whatever things that dear child has all along a fancy for, do
send her round a few even as often as you can by some one or other!"

Lady Feng assented to each of her recommendations; and when the second
arrived, she came, after breakfast, to the Ning mansion to see how Mrs.
Ch'in was getting on; and though she found her none the worse, the flesh
all over her face and person had however become emaciated and parched
up. She readily sat with Mrs. Ch'in for a long while, and after they had
chatted on one thing and another, she again reiterated the assurances
that this illness involved no danger, and distracted her for ever so
long.

"Whether I get well or not," observed Mrs. Ch'in, "we'll know in spring;
now winter is just over, and I'm anyhow no worse, so that possibly I may
get all right; and yet there's no saying; but, my dear sister-in-law, do
press our old lady to compose her mind! yesterday, her ladyship sent me
some potato dumplings, with minced dates in them, and though I had two,
they seem after all to be very easily digested!"

"I'll send you round some more to-morrow," lady Feng suggested; "I'm now
going to look up your mother-in-law, and will then hurry back to give my
report to our dowager lady."

"Please, sister-in-law," Mrs. Ch'in said, "present my best respects to
her venerable ladyship, as well as to madame Wang."

Lady Feng signified that she would comply with her wishes, and,
forthwith leaving the apartment, she came over and sat in Mrs. Yu's
suite of rooms.

"How do you, who don't see our son's wife very often, happen to find
her?" inquired Mrs. Yu.

Lady Feng drooped her head for some time. "There's no help," she
ventured, "for this illness! but you should likewise make every
subsequent preparation, for it would also be well if you could scour it
away."

"I've done so much as to secretly give orders," replied Mrs. Yu, "to get
things ready; but for that thing (the coffin), there's no good timber to
be found, so that it will have to be looked after by and by."

Lady Feng swallowed hastily a cup of tea, and after a short chat, "I
must be hurrying back," she remarked, "to deliver my message to our
dowager lady!"

"You should," urged Mrs. Yu, "be sparse in what you tell her lady ship
so as not to frighten an old person like her!"

"I know well enough what to say," replied lady Feng.

Without any further delay, lady Feng then sped back. On her arrival at
home she looked up the old lady. "Brother Jung's wife," she explained,
"presents her compliments, and pays obeisance to your venerable
ladyship; she says that she's much better, and entreats you, her worthy
senior, to set your mind at ease! That as soon as she's a little better
she will come and prostrate herself before your ladyship."

"How do you find her?" inquired dowager lady Chia.

"For the present there's nothing to fear," continued lady Feng; "for her
mien is still good."

After the old lady had heard these words, she was plunged for a long
while in deep reflection; and as she turned towards lady Feng, "Go and
divest yourself of your toilette," she said, "and have some rest."

Lady Feng in consequence signified her obedience, and walked away,
returning home after paying madame Wang a visit. P'ing Erh helped lady
Feng to put on the house costume, which she had warmed by the fire, and
lady Feng eventually took a seat and asked "whether there was anything
doing at home?"

P'ing Erh then brought the tea, and after going over to hand the cup:
"There's nothing doing," she replied; "as regards the interest on the
three hundred taels, Wang Erh's wife has brought it in, and I've put it
away. Besides this, Mr. Jui sent round to inquire if your ladyship was
at home or not, as he meant to come and pay his respects and to have a
chat."

"Heng!" exclaimed lady Feng at these words. "Why should this beast
compass his own death? we'll see when he comes what is to be done."

"Why is this Mr. Jui so bent upon coming?' P'ing Erh having inquired,
lady Feng readily gave her an account of how she had met him in the
course of the ninth moon in the Ning mansion, and of what had been said
by him.

"What a mangy frog to be bent upon eating the flesh of a heavenly
goose!" ejaculated P'ing Erh. "A stupid and disorderly fellow with no
conception of relationship, to harbour such a thought! but we'll make
him find an unnatural death!"

"Wait till he comes," added lady Feng, "when I feel certain I shall find
some way."

What happened, however, when Chia Jui came has not, as yet, been
ascertained, but listen, reader, to the explanation given in the next
chapter.




CHAPTER XII.

  Wang Hsi-feng maliciously lays a trap for Chia Jui, under pretence
      that his affection is reciprocated.
  Chia T'ien-hsiang gazes at the face of the mirror of Voluptuousness.


Lady Feng, it must be noticed in continuation of our narrative, was just
engaged in talking with P'ing Erh, when they heard some one announce
that Mr. Jui had come. Lady Feng gave orders that he should be invited
to step in, and Chia Jui perceiving that he had been asked to walk in
was at heart elated at the prospect of seeing her.

With a face beaming with smiles, Lady Feng inquired again and again how
he was; and, with simulated tenderness she further pressed him to take a
seat and urged him to have a cup of tea.

Chia Jui noticed how still more voluptuous lady Feng looked in her
present costume, and, as his eyes burnt with love, "How is it," he
inquired, "that my elder brother Secundus is not yet back?"

"What the reason is I cannot tell," lady Feng said by way of reply.

"May it not be," Chia Jui smilingly insinuated, "that some fair damsel
has got hold of him on the way, and that he cannot brook to tear himself
from her to come home?"

"That makes it plain that there are those among men who fall in love
with any girl they cast their eyes on," hinted lady Feng.

"Your remarks are, sister-in-law, incorrect, for I'm none of this kind!"
Chia Jui explained smirkingly.

"How many like you can there be!" rejoined lady Feng with a sarcastic
smile; "in ten, not one even could be picked out!"

When Chia Jui heard these words, he felt in such high glee that he
rubbed his ears and smoothed his cheeks. "My sister-in-law," he
continued, "you must of course be extremely lonely day after day."

"Indeed I am," observed lady Feng, "and I only wish some one would come
and have a chat with me to break my dull monotony."

"I daily have ample leisure," Chia Jui ventured with a simper, "and
wouldn't it be well if I came every day to dispel your dulness,
sister-in-law?"

"You are simply fooling me," exclaimed lady Feng laughing. "It isn't
likely you would wish to come over here to me?"

"If in your presence, sister-in-law, I utter a single word of falsehood,
may the thunder from heaven blast me!" protested Chia Jui. "It's only
because I had all along heard people say that you were a dreadful
person, and that you cannot condone even the slightest shortcoming
committed in your presence, that I was induced to keep back by fear; but
after seeing you, on this occasion, so chatty, so full of fun and most
considerate to others, how can I not come? were it to be the cause of my
death, I would be even willing to come!"

"You're really a clever person," lady Feng observed sarcastically. "And
oh so much superior to both Chia Jung and his brother! Handsome as their
presence was to look at, I imagined their minds to be full of
intelligence, but who would have thought that they would, after all, be
a couple of stupid worms, without the least notion of human affection!"

The words which Chia Jui heard, fell in so much the more with his own
sentiments, that he could not restrain himself from again pressing
forward nearer to her; and as with eyes strained to give intentness to
his view, he gazed at lady Feng's purse: "What rings have you got on?"
he went on to ask.

"You should be a little more deferential," remonstrated lady Feng in a
low tone of voice, "so as not to let the waiting-maids detect us."

Chia Jui withdrew backward with as much alacrity as if he had received
an Imperial decree or a mandate from Buddha.

"You ought to be going!" lady Feng suggested, as she gave him a smile.

"Do let me stay a while longer," entreated Chia Jui, "you are indeed
ruthless, my sister-in-law."

But with gentle voice did lady Feng again expostulate. "In broad
daylight," she said, "with people coming and going, it is not really
convenient that you should abide in here; so you had better go, and when
it's dark and the watch is set, you can come over, and quietly wait for
me in the corridor on the Eastern side!"

At these words, Chia Jui felt as if he had received some jewel or
precious thing. "Don't make fun of me!" he remarked with vehemence. "The
only thing is that crowds of people are ever passing from there, and how
will it be possible for me to evade detection?"

"Set your mind at ease!" lady Feng advised; "I shall dismiss on leave
all the youths on duty at night; and when the doors, on both sides, are
closed, there will be no one else to come in!"

Chia Jui was delighted beyond measure by the assurance, and with
impetuous haste, he took his leave and went off; convinced at heart of
the gratification of his wishes. He continued, up to the time of dusk, a
prey to keen expectation; and, when indeed darkness fell, he felt his
way into the Jung mansion, availing himself of the moment, when the
doors were being closed, to slip into the corridor, where everything was
actually pitch dark, and not a soul to be seen going backwards or
forwards.

The door leading over to dowager lady Chia's apartments had already been
put under key, and there was but one gate, the one on the East, which
had not as yet been locked. Chia Jui lent his ear, and listened for ever
so long, but he saw no one appear. Suddenly, however, was heard a sound
like "lo teng," and the east gate was also bolted; but though Chia Jui
was in a great state of impatience, he none the less did not venture to
utter a sound. All that necessity compelled him to do was to issue, with
quiet steps, from his corner, and to try the gates by pushing; but they
were closed as firmly as if they had been made fast with iron bolts; and
much though he may, at this juncture, have wished to find his way out,
escape was, in fact, out of the question; on the south and north was one
continuous dead wall, which, even had he wished to scale, there was
nothing which he could clutch and pull himself up by.

This room, besides, was one the interior (of which was exposed) to the
wind, which entered through (the fissure) of the door; and was perfectly
empty and bare; and the weather being, at this time, that of December,
and the night too very long, the northerly wind, with its biting gusts,
was sufficient to penetrate the flesh and to cleave the bones, so that
the whole night long he had a narrow escape from being frozen to death;
and he was yearning, with intolerable anxiety for the break of day, when
he espied an old matron go first and open the door on the East side, and
then come in and knock at the western gate.

Chia Jui seeing that she had turned her face away, bolted out, like a
streak of smoke, as he hugged his shoulders with his hands (from intense
cold.) As luck would have it, the hour was as yet early, so that the
inmates of the house had not all got out of bed; and making his escape
from the postern door, he straightaway betook himself home, running back
the whole way.

Chia Jui's parents had, it must be explained, departed life at an early
period, and he had no one else, besides his grandfather Tai-ju, to take
charge of his support and education. This Tai-ju had, all along,
exercised a very strict control, and would not allow Chia Jui to even
make one step too many, in the apprehension that he might gad about out
of doors drinking and gambling, to the neglect of his studies.

Seeing, on this unexpected occasion, that he had not come home the whole
night, he simply felt positive, in his own mind, that he was certain to
have run about, if not drinking, at least gambling, and dissipating in
houses of the demi-monde up to the small hours; but he never even gave
so much as a thought to the possibility of a public scandal, as that in
which he was involved. The consequence was that during the whole length
of the night he boiled with wrath.

Chia Jui himself, on the other hand, was (in such a state of
trepidation) that he could wipe the perspiration (off his face) by
handfuls; and he felt constrained on his return home, to have recourse
to deceitful excuses, simply explaining that he had been at his eldest
maternal uncle's house, and that when it got dark, they kept him to
spend the night there.

"Hitherto," remonstrated Tai-ju, "when about to go out of doors, you
never ventured to go, on your own hook, without first telling me about
it, and how is it that yesterday you surreptitiously left the house? for
this offence alone you deserve a beating, and how much more for the lie
imposed upon me."

Into such a violent fit of anger did he consequently fly that laying
hands on him, he pulled him over and administered to him thirty or forty
blows with a cane. Nor would he allow him to have anything to eat, but
bade him remain on his knees in the court conning essays; impressing on
his mind that he would not let him off, before he had made up for the
last ten days' lessons.

Chia Jui had in the first instance, frozen the whole night, and, in the
next place, came in for a flogging. With a stomach, besides, gnawed by
the pangs of hunger, he had to kneel in a place exposed to drafts
reading the while literary compositions, so that the hardships he had to
endure were of manifold kinds.

Chia Jui's infamous intentions had at this junction undergone no change;
but far from his thoughts being even then any idea that lady Feng was
humbugging him, he seized, after the lapse of a couple of days, the
first leisure moments to come again in search of that lady.

Lady Feng pretended to bear him a grudge for his breach of faith, and
Chia Jui was so distressed that he tried by vows and oaths (to establish
his innocence.) Lady Feng perceiving that he had, of his own accord,
fallen into the meshes of the net laid for him, could not but devise
another plot to give him a lesson and make him know what was right and
mend his ways.

With this purpose, she gave him another assignation. "Don't go over
there," she said, "to-night, but wait for me in the empty rooms giving
on to a small passage at the back of these apartments of mine. But
whatever you do, mind don't be reckless."

"Are you in real earnest?" Chia Jui inquired.

"Why, who wants to play with you?" replied lady Feng; "if you don't
believe what I say, well then don't come!"

"I'll come, I'll come, yea I'll come, were I even to die!" protested
Chia Jui.

"You should first at this very moment get away!" lady Feng having
suggested, Chia Jui, who felt sanguine that when evening came, success
would for a certainty crown his visit, took at once his departure in
anticipation (of his pleasure.)

During this interval lady Feng hastily set to work to dispose of her
resources, and to add to her stratagems, and she laid a trap for her
victim; while Chia Jui, on the other hand, was until the shades of
darkness fell, a prey to incessant expectation.

As luck would have it a relative of his happened to likewise come on
that very night to their house and to only leave after he had dinner
with them, and at an hour of the day when the lamps had already been
lit; but he had still to wait until his grandfather had retired to rest
before he could, at length with precipitate step, betake himself into
the Jung mansion.

Straightway he came into the rooms in the narrow passage, and waited
with as much trepidation as if he had been an ant in a hot pan. He
however waited and waited, but he saw no one arrive; he listened but not
even the sound of a voice reached his ear. His heart was full of intense
fear, and he could not restrain giving way to surmises and suspicion.
"May it not be," he thought, "that she is not coming again; and that I
may have once more to freeze for another whole night?"

While indulging in these erratic reflections, he discerned some one
coming, looking like a black apparition, who Chia Jui readily concluded,
in his mind, must be lady Feng; so that, unmindful of distinguishing
black from white, he as soon as that person arrived in front of him,
speedily clasped her in his embrace, like a ravenous tiger pouncing upon
its prey, or a cat clawing a rat, and cried: "My darling sister, you
have made me wait till I'm ready to die."

As he uttered these words, he dragged the comer, in his arms, on to the
couch in the room; and while indulging in kisses and protestations of
warm love, he began to cry out at random epithets of endearment.

Not a sound, however, came from the lips of the other person; and Chia
Jui had in the fulness of his passion, exceeded the bounds of timid love
and was in the act of becoming still more affectionate in his
protestations, when a sudden flash of a light struck his eye, by the
rays of which he espied Chia Se with a candle in hand, casting the light
round the place, "Who's in this room?" he exclaimed.

"Uncle Jui," he heard some one on the couch explain, laughing, "was
trying to take liberties with me!"

Chia Jui at one glance became aware that it was no other than Chia Jung;
and a sense of shame at once so overpowered him that he could find
nowhere to hide himself; nor did he know how best to extricate himself
from the dilemma. Turning himself round, he made an attempt to make good
his escape, when Chia Se with one grip clutched him in his hold.

"Don't run away," he said; "sister-in-law Lien has already reported your
conduct to madame Wang; and explained that you had tried to make her
carry on an improper flirtation with you; that she had temporised by
having recourse to a scheme to escape your importunities, and that she
had imposed upon you in such a way as to make you wait for her in this
place. Our lady was so terribly incensed, that she well-nigh succumbed;
and hence it is that she bade me come and catch you! Be quick now and
follow me, and let us go and see her."

After Chia Jui had heard these words, his very soul could not be
contained within his body.

"My dear nephew," he entreated, "do tell her that it wasn't I; and I'll
show you my gratitude to-morrow in a substantial manner."

"Letting you off," rejoined Chia Se, "is no difficult thing; but how
much, I wonder, are you likely to give? Besides, what you now utter with
your lips, there will be no proof to establish; so you had better write
a promissory note."

"How could I put what happened in black and white on paper?" observed
Chia Jui.

"There's no difficulty about that either!" replied Chia Se; "just write
an account of a debt due, for losses in gambling, to some one outside;
for payment of which you had to raise funds, by a loan of a stated
number of taels, from the head of the house; and that will be all that
is required."

"This is, in fact, easy enough!" Chia Jui having added by way of answer;
Chia Se turned round and left the room; and returning with paper and
pencils, which had been got ready beforehand for the purpose, he bade
Chia Jui write. The two of them (Chia Jung and Chia Se) tried, the one
to do a good turn, and the other to be perverse in his insistence; but
(Chia Jui) put down no more than fifty taels, and appended his
signature.

Chia Se pocketed the note, and endeavoured subsequently to induce Chia
Jung to come away; but Chia Jung was, at the outset, obdurate and
unwilling to give in, and kept on repeating; "To-morrow, I'll tell the
members of our clan to look into your nice conduct!"

These words plunged Chia Jui in such a state of dismay, that he even
went so far as to knock his head on the ground; but, as Chia Se was
trying to get unfair advantage of him though he had at first done him a
good turn, he had to write another promissory note for fifty taels,
before the matter was dropped.

Taking up again the thread of the conversation, Chia Se remarked, "Now
when I let you go, I'm quite ready to bear the blame! But the gate at
our old lady's over there is already bolted, and Mr. Chia Cheng is just
now engaged in the Hall, looking at the things which have arrived from
Nanking, so that it would certainly be difficult for you to pass through
that way. The only safe course at present is by the back gate; but if
you do go by there, and perchance meet any one, even I will be in for a
mess; so you might as well wait until I go first and have a peep, when
I'll come and fetch you! You couldn't anyhow conceal yourself in this
room; for in a short time they'll be coming to stow the things away, and
you had better let me find a safe place for you."

These words ended, he took hold of Chia Jui, and, extinguishing again
the lantern, he brought him out into the court, feeling his way up to
the bottom of the steps of the large terrace. "It's safe enough in this
nest," he observed, "but just squat down quietly and don't utter a
sound; wait until I come back before you venture out."

Having concluded this remark, the two of them (Chia Se and Chia Jung)
walked away; while Chia Jui was, all this time, out of his senses, and
felt constrained to remain squatting at the bottom of the terrace
stairs. He was about to consider what course was open for him to adopt,
when he heard a noise just over his head; and, with a splash, the
contents of a bucket, consisting entirely of filthy water, was emptied
straight down over him from above, drenching, as luck would have it, his
whole person and head.

Chia Jui could not suppress an exclamation. "Ai ya!" he cried, but he
hastily stopped his mouth with his hands, and did not venture to give
vent to another sound. His whole head and face were a mass of filth, and
his body felt icy cold. But as he shivered and shook, he espied Chia Se
come running. "Get off," he shouted, "with all speed! off with you at
once!"

As soon as Chia Jui returned to life again, he bolted with hasty
strides, out of the back gate, and ran the whole way home. The night had
already reached the third watch, so that he had to knock at the door for
it to be opened.

"What's the matter?" inquired the servants, when they saw him in this
sorry plight; (an inquiry) which placed him in the necessity of making
some false excuse. "The night was dark," he explained, "and my foot
slipped and I fell into a gutter."

Saying this, he betook himself speedily to his own apartment; and it was
only after he had changed his clothes and performed his ablutions, that
he began to realise that lady Feng had made a fool of him. He
consequently gave way to a fit of wrath; but upon recalling to mind the
charms of lady Feng's face, he felt again extremely aggrieved that he
could not there and then clasp her in his embrace, and as he indulged in
these wild thoughts and fanciful ideas, he could not the whole night
long close his eyes.

From this time forward his mind was, it is true, still with lady Feng,
but he did not have the courage to put his foot into the Jung mansion;
and with Chia Jung and Chia Se both coming time and again to dun him for
the money, he was likewise full of fears lest his grandfather should
come to know everything.

His passion for lady Feng was, in fact, already a burden hard to bear,
and when, moreover, the troubles of debts were superadded to his tasks,
which were also during the whole day arduous, he, a young man of about
twenty, as yet unmarried, and a prey to constant cravings for lady Feng,
which were difficult to gratify, could not avoid giving way, to a great
extent, to such evil habits as exhausted his energies. His lot had, what
is more, been on two occasions to be frozen, angered and to endure much
hardship, so that with the attacks received time and again from all
sides, he unconsciously soon contracted an organic disease. In his heart
inflammation set in; his mouth lost the sense of taste; his feet got as
soft as cotton from weakness; his eyes stung, as if there were vinegar
in them. At night, he burnt with fever. During the day, he was
repeatedly under the effects of lassitude. Perspiration was profuse,
while with his expectorations of phlegm, he brought up blood. The whole
number of these several ailments came upon him, before the expiry of a
year, (with the result that) in course of time, he had not the strength
to bear himself up. Of a sudden, he would fall down, and with his eyes,
albeit closed, his spirit would be still plunged in confused dreams,
while his mouth would be full of nonsense and he would be subject to
strange starts.

Every kind of doctor was asked to come in, and every treatment had
recourse to; and, though of such medicines as cinnamon, aconitum seeds,
turtle shell, ophiopogon, Yue-chue herb, and the like, he took several
tens of catties, he nevertheless experienced no change for the better;
so that by the time the twelfth moon drew once again to an end, and
spring returned, this illness had become still more serious.

Tai-ju was very much concerned, and invited doctors from all parts to
attend to him, but none of them could do him any good. And as later on,
he had to take nothing else but decoctions of pure ginseng, Tai-ju could
not of course afford it. Having no other help but to come over to the
Jung mansion, and make requisition for some, Madame Wang asked lady Feng
to weigh two taels of it and give it to him. "The other day," rejoined
lady Feng, "not long ago, when we concocted some medicine for our
dowager lady, you told us, madame, to keep the pieces that were whole,
to present to the spouse of General Yang to make physic with, and as it
happens it was only yesterday that I sent some one round with them."

"If there's none over here in our place," suggested madame Wang, "just
send a servant to your mother-in-law's, on the other side, to inquire
whether they have any. Or it may possibly be that your elder
brother-in-law Chen, over there, might have a little. If so, put all you
get together, and give it to them; and when he shall have taken it, and
got well and you shall have saved the life of a human being, it will
really be to the benefit of you all."

Lady Feng acquiesced; but without directing a single person to institute
any search, she simply took some refuse twigs, and making up a few mace,
she despatched them with the meagre message that they had been sent by
madame Wang, and that there was, in fact, no more; subsequently
reporting to madame Wang that she had asked for and obtained all there
was and that she had collected as much as two taels, and forwarded it to
them.

Chia Jui was, meanwhile, very anxious to recover his health, so that
there was no medicine that he would not take, but the outlay of money
was of no avail, for he derived no benefit.

On a certain day and at an unexpected moment, a lame Taoist priest came
to beg for alms, and he averred that he had the special gift of healing
diseases arising from grievances received, and as Chia Jui happened,
from inside, to hear what he said, he forthwith shouted out: "Go at
once, and bid that divine come in and save my life!" while he
reverentially knocked his head on the pillow.

The whole bevy of servants felt constrained to usher the Taoist in; and
Chia Jui, taking hold of him with a dash, "My Buddha!" he repeatedly
cried out, "save my life!"

The Taoist heaved a sigh. "This ailment of yours," he remarked, "is not
one that could be healed with any medicine; I have a precious thing here
which I'll give you, and if you gaze at it every day, your life can be
saved!"

When he had done talking, he produced from his pouch a looking-glass
which could reflect a person's face on the front and back as well. On
the upper part of the back were engraved the four characters: "Precious
Mirror of Voluptuousness." Handing it over to Chia Jui: "This object,"
he proceeded, "emanates from the primordial confines of the Great Void
and has been wrought by the Monitory Dream Fairy in the Palace of
Unreality and Spirituality, with the sole intent of healing the
illnesses which originate from evil thoughts and improper designs.
Possessing, as it does, the virtue of relieving mankind and preserving
life, I have consequently brought it along with me into the world, but I
only give it to those intelligent preeminent and refined princely men to
set their eyes on. On no account must you look at the front side; and
you should only gaze at the back of it; this is urgent, this is
expedient! After three days, I shall come and fetch it away; by which
time, I'm sure, it will have made him all right."

These words finished, he walked away with leisurely step, and though all
tried to detain him, they could not succeed.

Chia Jui received the mirror. "This Taoist," he thought, "would seem to
speak sensibly, and why should I not look at it and try its effect?" At
the conclusion of these thoughts, he took up the Mirror of
Voluptuousness, and cast his eyes on the obverse side; but upon
perceiving nought else than a skeleton standing in it, Chia Jui
sustained such a fright that he lost no time in covering it with his
hands and in abusing the Taoist. "You good-for-nothing!" he exclaimed,
"why should you frighten me so? but I'll go further and look at the
front and see what it's like."

While he reflected in this manner, he readily looked into the face of
the mirror, wherein he caught sight of lady Feng standing, nodding her
head and beckoning to him. With one gush of joy, Chia Jui felt himself,
in a vague and mysterious manner, transported into the mirror, where he
held an affectionate tete-a-tete with lady Feng. Lady Feng escorted him
out again. On his return to bed, he gave vent to an exclamation of "Ai
yah!" and opening his eyes, he turned the glass over once more; but
still, as hitherto, stood the skeleton in the back part.

Chia Jui had, it is true, experienced all the pleasant sensations of a
tete-a-tete, but his heart nevertheless did not feel gratified; so that
he again turned the front round, and gazed at lady Feng, as she still
waved her hand and beckoned to him to go. Once more entering the mirror,
he went on in the same way for three or four times, until this occasion,
when just as he was about to issue from the mirror, he espied two
persons come up to him, who made him fast with chains round the neck,
and hauled him away. Chia Jui shouted. "Let me take the mirror and I'll
come along." But only this remark could he utter, for it was forthwith
beyond his power to say one word more. The servants, who stood by in
attendance, saw him at first still holding the glass in his hand and
looking in, and then, when it fell from his grasp, open his eyes again
to pick it up, but when at length the mirror dropped, and he at once
ceased to move, they in a body came forward to ascertain what had
happened to him. He had already breathed his last. The lower part of his
body was icy-cold; his clothes moist from profuse perspiration. With all
promptitude they changed him there and then, and carried him to another
bed.

Tai-ju and his wife wept bitterly for him, to the utter disregard of
their own lives, while in violent terms they abused the Taoist priest.
"What kind of magical mirror is it?" they asked. "If we don't destroy
this glass, it will do harm to not a few men in the world!"

Having forthwith given directions to bring fire and burn it, a voice was
heard in the air to say, "Who told you to look into the face of it? You
yourselves have mistaken what is false for what is true, and why burn
this glass of mine?"

Suddenly the mirror was seen to fly away into the air; and when Tai-ju
went out of doors to see, he found no one else than the limping Taoist,
shouting, "Who is he who wishes to destroy the Mirror of
Voluptuousness?" While uttering these words, he snatched the glass, and,
as all eyes were fixed upon him, he moved away lissomely, as if swayed
by the wind.

Tai-ju at once made preparations for the funeral and went everywhere to
give notice that on the third day the obsequies would commence, that on
the seventh the procession would start to escort the coffin to the Iron
Fence Temple, and that on the subsequent day, it would be taken to his
original home.

Not much time elapsed before all the members of the Chia family came, in
a body, to express their condolences. Chia She, of the Jung Mansion,
presented twenty taels, and Chia Cheng also gave twenty taels. Of the
Ning Mansion, Chia Chen likewise contributed twenty taels. The remainder
of the members of the clan, of whom some were poor and some rich, and
not equally well off, gave either one or two taels, or three or four,
some more, some less. Among strangers, there were also contributions,
respectively presented by the families of his fellow-scholars,
amounting, likewise, collectively to twenty or thirty taels.

The private means of Tai-ju were, it is true, precarious, but with the
monetary assistance he obtained, he anyhow performed the funeral rites
with all splendour and eclat.

But who would have thought it, at the close of winter of this year, Lin
Ju-hai contracted a serious illness, and forwarded a letter, by some
one, with the express purpose of fetching Lin Tai-yue back. These
tidings, when they reached dowager lady Chia, naturally added to the
grief and distress (she already suffered), but she felt compelled to
make speedy preparations for Tai-yue's departure. Pao-yue too was
intensely cut up, but he had no alternative but to defer to the
affection of father and daughter; nor could he very well place any
hindrance in the way.

Old lady Chia, in due course, made up her mind that she would like Chia
Lien to accompany her, and she also asked him to bring her back again
along with him. But no minute particulars need be given of the manifold
local presents and of the preparations, which were, of course,
everything that could be wished for in excellence and perfectness.
Forthwith the day for starting was selected, and Chia Lien, along with
Lin Tai-yue, said good-bye to all the members of the family, and,
followed by their attendants, they went on board their boats, and set
out on their journey for Yang Chou.

But, Reader, should you have any wish to know fuller details, listen to
the account given in the subsequent Chapter.




CHAPTER XIII.

  Ch'in K'o-ch'ing dies, and Chia Jung is invested with the rank of
      military officer to the Imperial Body-guard.
  Wang Hsi-feng lends her help in the management of the Jung Kuo
      Mansion.


Lady Feng, it must be added, in prosecuting our narrative, was ever
since Chia Lien's departure to accompany Tai-yue to Yang Chou, really
very dejected at heart; and every day, when evening came, she would,
after simply indulging in a chat and a laugh with P'ing Erh, turn in, in
a heedless frame of mind, for the night.

In the course of the night of this day, she had been sitting with P'ing
Erh by lamp-light clasping the hand-stove; and weary of doing her work
of embroidery, she had at an early hour, given orders to warm the
embroidered quilt, and both had gone to bed; and as she was bending her
fingers, counting the progress of the journey, and when they should be
arriving, unexpectedly, the third watch struck.

P'ing Erh had already fallen fast asleep; and lady Feng was feeling at
length her sleepy eyes slightly dose, when she faintly discerned Mrs.
Ch'in walk in from outside.

"My dear sister-in-law," she said as she smiled, "sleep in peace; I'm on
my way back to-day, and won't even you accompany me just one stage? But
as you and I have been great friends all along, I cannot part from you,
sister-in-law, and have therefore come to take my leave of you. There
is, besides, a wish of mine, which isn't yet accomplished; and if I
don't impart it to you, it isn't likely that telling any one else will
be of any use."

Lady Feng could not make out the sense of the words she heard. "What
wish is it you have?" she inquired, "do tell me, and it will be safe
enough with me."

"You are, my dear sister-in-law, a heroine among women," observed Mrs.
Ch'in, "so much so that those famous men, with sashes and official hats,
cannot excel you; how is it that you're not aware of even a couple of
lines of common adages, of that trite saying, 'when the moon is full, it
begins to wane; when the waters are high, they must overflow?' and of
that other which says that 'if you ascend high, heavy must be your
fall.' Our family has now enjoyed splendour and prosperity for already
well-nigh a century, but a day comes when at the height of good fortune,
calamity arises; and if the proverb that 'when the tree falls, the
monkeys scatter,' be fulfilled, will not futile have been the reputation
of culture and old standing of a whole generation?"

Lady Feng at these words felt her heart heavy, and overpowered by
intense awe and veneration.

"The fears you express are well founded," she urgently remarked, "but
what plan is there adequate to preserve it from future injury?"

"My dear sister-in-law," rejoined Mrs. Ch'in with a sardonic smile,
"you're very simple indeed! When woe has reached its climax, weal
supervenes. Prosperity and adversity, from days of yore up to the
present time, now pass away, and now again revive, and how can
(prosperity) be perpetuated by any human exertion? But if now, we could
in the time of good fortune, make provision against any worldly
concerns, which might arise at any season of future adversity, we might
in fact prolong and preserve it. Everything, for instance, is at present
well-regulated; but there are two matters which are not on a sure
footing, and if such and such suitable action could be adopted with
regard to these concerns, it will, in subsequent days, be found easy to
perpetuate the family welfare in its entity."

"What matters are these?" inquired lady Feng.

"Though at the graves of our ancestors," explained Mrs. Ch'in,
"sacrifices and oblations be offered at the four seasons, there's
nevertheless no fixed source of income. In the second place, the family
school is, it is true, in existence; but it has no definite
grants-in-aid. According to my views, now that the times are prosperous,
there's, as a matter of course, no lack of offerings and contributions;
but by and bye, when reverses set in, whence will these two outlays be
met from? Would it not be as well, and my ideas are positive on this
score, to avail ourselves of the present time, when riches and honours
still reign, to establish in the immediate vicinity of our ancestral
tombs, a large number of farms, cottages, and estates, in order to
enable the expenditure for offerings and grants to entirely emanate from
this source? And if the household school were also established on this
principle, the old and young in the whole clan can, after they have, by
common consent, determined upon rules, exercise in days to come control,
in the order of the branches, over the affairs connected with the landed
property, revenue, ancestral worship and school maintenance for the year
(of their respective term.) Under this rotatory system, there will
likewise be no animosities; neither will there be any mortgages, or
sales, or any of these numerous malpractices; and should any one happen
to incur blame, his personal effects can be confiscated by Government.
But the properties, from which will be derived the funds for ancestral
worship, even the officials should not be able to appropriate, so that
when reverses do supervene, the sons and grandsons of the family may be
able to return to their homes, and prosecute their studies, or go in for
farming. Thus, while they will have something to fall back upon, the
ancestral worship will, in like manner, be continued in perpetuity. But,
if the present affluence and splendour be looked upon as bound to go on
without intermission, and with no thought for the day to come, no
enduring plan be after all devised, presently, in a little while, there
will, once again, transpire a felicitous occurrence of exceptional kind,
which, in point of fact, will resemble the splendour of oil scorched on
a violent fire, or fresh flowers decorated with brocades. You should
bear in mind that it will also be nothing more real than a transient
pageant, nothing but a short-lived pleasure! Whatever you do, don't
forget the proverb, that 'there's no banquet, however sumptuous, from
which the guests do not disperse;' and unless you do, at an early date,
take precautions against later evils, regret will, I apprehend, be of no
avail."

"What felicitous occurrence will take place?" lady Feng inquired with
alacrity.

"The decrees of Heaven cannot be divulged; but as I have been very
friendly with you, sister-in-law, for so long, I will present you,
before I take my leave, with two lines, which it behoves you to keep in
mind," rejoined Mrs. Ch'in, as she consequently proceeded to recite what
follows:

  The three springs, when over, all radiance will wane;
  The inmates to seek each a home will be fain.

Lady Feng was bent upon making further inquiries, when she heard a
messenger at the second gate strike the "cloudy board" four consecutive
blows. It was indeed the announcement of a death; and it woke up lady
Feng with a start. A servant reported that lady Jung of the eastern
mansion was no more.

Lady Feng was so taken aback that a cold perspiration broke out all over
her person, and she fell for a while into vacant abstraction. But she
had to change her costume, with all possible haste, and to come over to
madame Wang's apartments.

By this time, all the members of the family were aware of the tidings,
and there was not one of them who did not feel disconsolate; one and all
of them were much wounded at heart. The elder generation bethought
themselves of the dutiful submission which she had all along displayed;
those of the same age as herself reflected upon the friendship and
intimacy which had ever existed with her; those younger than her
remembered her past benevolence. Even the servants of the household,
whether old or young, looked back upon her qualities of sympathy with
the poor, pity of the destitute, affection for the old, and
consideration for the young; and not one of them all was there who did
not mourn her loss, and give way to intense grief.

But these irrelevant details need not be dilated upon; suffice it to
confine ourselves to Pao-yue.

Consequent upon Lin Tai-yue's return home, he was left to his own self
and felt very lonely. Neither would he go and disport himself with
others; but with the daily return of dusk, he was wont to retire quietly
to sleep.

On this day, while he was yet under the influence of a dream, he heard
the announcement of Mrs. Ch'in's death, and turning himself round
quickly he crept out of bed, when he felt as if his heart had been
stabbed with a sword. With a sudden retch, he straightway expectorated a
mouthful of blood, which so frightened Hsi Jen and the rest that they
rushed forward and supported him.

"What is the matter?" they inquired, and they meant also to go and let
dowager lady Chia know, so as to send for a doctor, but Pao-yue dissuaded
them.

"There's no need of any flurry; it's nothing at all," he said, "it's
simply that the fire of grief has attacked the heart, and that the blood
did not circulate through the arteries."

As he spoke, he speedily raised himself up, and, after asking for his
clothes and changing, he came over to see dowager lady Chia. His wish
was to go at once to the other side; and Hsi Jen, though feeling uneasy
at heart, seeing the state of mind he was in, did not again hinder him,
as she felt constrained to let him please himself.

When old lady Chia saw that he was bent upon going: "The breath is just
gone out of the body," she consequently remonstrated, "and that side is
still sullied. In the second place it's now dark, and the wind is high;
so you had better wait until to-morrow morning, when you will be in
ample time."

Pao-yue would not agree to this, and dowager lady Chia gave orders to get
the carriage ready, and to depute a few more attendants and followers to
go with him. Under this escort he went forward and straightway arrived
in front of the Ning mansion, where they saw the main entrance wide
open, the lamps on the two sides giving out a light as bright as day,
and people coming and going in confused and large numbers; while the
sound of weeping inside was sufficient to shake the mountains and to
move the hills.

Pao-yue dismounted from the carriage; and with hurried step, walked into
the apartment, where the coffin was laid. He gave vent to bitter tears
for a few minutes, and subsequently paid his salutations to Mrs. Yu.
Mrs. Yu, as it happened, had just had a relapse of her old complaint of
pains in the stomach and was lying on her bed.

He eventually came out again from her chamber to salute Chia Chen, just
at the very moment that Chia Tai-ju, Chia Tai-hsiu, Chia Ch'ih, Chiao
Hsiao, Chia Tun, Chia She, Chia Cheng, Chia Tsung, Chia Pin, Chia Hsing,
Chia Kuang, Chia Shen, Chia Ch'iung, Chia Lin, Chia Se, Chia Ch'ang,
Chia Ling, Chia Yuen, Chia Ch'in, Chia Chen, Chia P'ing, Chia Tsao, Chia
Heng, Chia Fen, Chia Fang, Chia Lan, Chia Chun, Chia Chih and the other
relatives of the families had likewise arrived in a body.

Chia Chen wept so bitterly that he was like a man of tears. "Of the
whole family, whether young or old, distant relatives or close friends,"
he was just explaining to Chia Tai-ju and the rest, "who did not know
that this girl was a hundred times better than even our son? but now
that her spirit has retired, it's evident that this elder branch of the
family will be cut off and that there will be no survivor."

While he gave vent to these words, he again burst into tears, and the
whole company of relatives set to work at once to pacify him. "She has
already departed this life," they argued, "and tears are also of no
avail, besides the pressing thing now is to consult as to what kind of
arrangements are to be made."

Chia Chen clapped his hands. "What arrangements are to be made!" he
exclaimed; "nothing is to be done, but what is within my means."

As they conversed, they perceived Ch'in Yeh and Ch'in Chung, as well as
several relations of Mrs. Yu, arrive, together with Mrs. Yu's sisters;
and Chia Chen forthwith bade Chia Ch'ung, Chia Shen, Chia Lin and Chia
Se, the four of them, to go and entertain the guests; while he, at the
same time, issued directions to go and ask the Astrologer of the
Imperial Observatory to come and choose the days for the ceremonies.

(This Astrologer) decided that the coffin should remain in the house for
seven times seven days, that is forty-nine days; that after the third
day, the mourning rites should be begun and the formal cards should be
distributed; that all that was to be done during these forty-nine days
was to invite one hundred and eight Buddhist bonzes to perform, in the
main Hall, the High Confession Mass, in order to ford the souls of
departed relatives across the abyss of suffering, and afterwards to
transmute the spirit (of Mrs. Ch'in); that, in addition, an altar should
be erected in the Tower of Heavenly Fragrance, where nine times nine
virtuous Taoist priests should, for nineteen days, offer up prayers for
absolution from punishment, and purification from retribution. That
after these services, the tablet should be moved into the Garden of
Concentrated Fragrance, and that in the presence of the tablet, fifteen
additional eminent bonzes and fifteen renowned Taoist Priests should
confront the altar and perform meritorious deeds every seven days.

The news of the death of the wife of his eldest grandson reached Chia
Ching; but as he himself felt sure that, at no distant date, he would
ascend to the regions above, he was loth to return again to his home,
and so expose himself to the contamination of the world, as to
completely waste the meritorious excellence acquired in past days. For
this reason, he paid no heed to the event, but allowed Chia Chen a free
hand to accomplish the necessary preparations.

Chia Chen, to whom we again revert, was fond of display and
extravagance, so that he found, on inspection of coffins, those few made
of pine-wood unsuitable to his taste; when, strange coincidence, Hsueeh
P'an came to pay his visit of condolence, and perceiving that Chia Chen
was in quest of a good coffin: "In our establishment," he readily
suggested, "we have a lot of timber of some kind or other called Ch'iang
wood, which comes from the T'ieh Wang Mount, in Huang Hai; and which
made into coffins will not rot, not for ten thousand years. This lot
was, in fact, brought down, some years back, by my late father; and had
at one time been required by His Highness I Chung, a Prince of the royal
blood; but as he became guilty of some mismanagement, it was, in
consequence, not used, and is still lying stored up in our
establishment; and another thing besides is that there's no one with the
means to purchase it. But if you do want it, you should come and have a
look at it."

Chia Chen, upon hearing this, was extremely delighted, and gave orders
that the planks should be there and then brought over. When the whole
family came to inspect them, they found those for the sides and the
bottom to be all eight inches thick, the grain like betel-nut, the smell
like sandal-wood or musk, while, when tapped with the hand, the sound
emitted was like that of precious stones; so that one and all agreed in
praising the timber for its remarkable quality.

"What is their price?" Chia Chen inquired with a smile.

"Even with one thousand taels in hand," explained Hsueeh P'an laughingly,
"I feel sure you wouldn't find any place, where you could buy the like.
Why ask about price? if you just give the workmen a few taels for their
labour, it will be quite sufficient."

Chia Chen, at these words, lost no time in giving expression to profuse
assurances of gratitude, and was forthwith issuing directions that the
timber should be split, sawn and made up, when Chia Cheng proffered his
advice. "Such articles shouldn't," he said, "be, in my idea, enjoyed by
persons of the common run; it would be quite ample if the body were
placed in a coffin made of pine of the best quality."

But Chia Chen would not listen to any suggestion.

Suddenly he further heard that Mrs. Ch'in's waiting-maid, Jui Chu by
name, had, after she had become alive to the fact that her mistress had
died, knocked her head against a post, and likewise succumbed to the
blows. This unusual occurrence the whole clan extolled in high terms;
and Chia Chen promptly directed that, with regard to ceremonies, she
should be treated as a granddaughter, and that the body should, after it
had been placed in the coffin, be also deposited in the Hall of Attained
Immortality, in the Garden of Concentrated Fragrance.

There was likewise a young waiting-maid, called Pao Chu, who, as Mrs.
Ch'in left no issue, was willing to become an adopted child, and begged
to be allowed to undertake the charge of dashing the mourning bowl, and
accompanying the coffin; which pleased Chia Chen so much that he
speedily transmitted orders that from that time forth Pao Chu should be
addressed by all as 'young miss.'

Pao Chu, after the rites of an unmarried daughter, mourned before the
coffin to such an unwonted degree, as if bent upon snapping her own
life; while the members of the entire clan, as well as the inmates of
the Mansions, each and all, readily observed, in their conduct, the
established mourning usages, without of course any transgression or
confusion.

"Chia Jung," pondered Chia Chen, "has no higher status than that of
graduate by purchase, and were this designation written on the funeral
streamer, it will not be imposing, and, in point of fact, the retinue
will likewise be small." He therefore was exceedingly unhappy, in his
own mind, when, as luck would have it, on this day, which was the fourth
day of the first seven, Tai Ch'uean, a eunuch of the Palace of High
Renown, whose office was that of Palace Overseer, first prepared
sacrificial presents, which he sent round by messengers, and next came
himself in an official chair, preceded by criers beating the gong, to
offer sacrificial oblations.

Chia Chen promptly received him, and pressed him into a seat; and when
they adjourned into the Hall of the Loitering Bees, tea was presented.

Chia Chen had already arrived at a fixed purpose, so that he seized an
opportunity to tell him of his wish to purchase an office for Chia
Jung's advancement.

Tai Ch'uean understood the purport of his remark. "